Good morning, folks.
I've been fighting with OBS for the last
20 minutes.
I'm not sure why this thing is so
fickle. It just does not want to
cooperate. I don't know why, but either
it doesn't want to show my screen or it
doesn't want to show an audio
or not show an audio. I guess pick up my
audio. So, good morning. Good morning.
Um, today we have the market opening up
just really close to where we settled at
here. So, I'll show you.
Let's see if I can
do an audio check here first.
Yep, I hear myself. All right. So the
regular trading hours if you go down
here right now it's on electronic
trading hours.
So we go to regular trading hours and
this is where we settled previous
session and this is where we opened. So
to open
at this level here we have a small
little discount gap.
[Music]
So this is the glow.
So now it's the opening range gap
low
and settlement is what I label it until
we get the actual open when it's real
close to it pre-market before 9:30 as
I'm watching it. I have this already
annotated. So, opening range gap high
because this is higher than where we
opened up when we're in trading session
hours.
Okay.
Right. So, let's go back into electronic
trading hours.
And initially, I'd like to see if it
makes any attempt. I'm going to grav
back up into here because he left that
really smooth and he just upset the the
sell side here.
So, here's buy side
because we had a really small gap. I'm
not all that excited about the initial
morning session. Like, I'm not
overly bullish, overly bearish. I'm just
indifferent right now. I just want to
wait and see what the market gives me.
This week the focus on the lectures
Caleb is to highlight areas that are
going to be problematic. And one of
those things is obviously today where we
have a very small minor gap. Okay. the
larger gaps that we open up with, uh,
they tend to kind of like invite larger
volatility and a lot more protraction in
the marketplace.
And then we just did this area down
here.
Got a lot of feedback from uh, Friday's
live stream. I appreciate that. A lot of
folks uh, never saw call the daily high
and the daily low and show a $200,000
framework in one trade. But uh we're
just getting started.
Hope you had a good weekend. I did very
good weekend.
All right. So now we have worked the
sell side here. The market has gapped
lower with a lower gap opening. We
traded above the opening of I'm sorry
the opening range gap high which is
previous settlement. So Friday's day
session settlement price. That's what
this is here. We're working inside of
the old new week opening gap on August
25th, 2024.
Okay. And what I want to see is do we
have the ability to work one more time
taking out this low because it was a
little shallow
doing that. So if I were to kind of like
force myself to give you if I had to
anticipate right now what I thought was
likely to occur. I think we're going to
bang around between new day opening gap
of August 21st and the opening range gap
low until we dis, you know, discern what
what it wants to do. So, I'm sitting
still. I'm relaxing. I'm not worried
about trying to be right about what I
think it's going to do initially.
My
tendency is to look at what we have left
over here.
So, these relative equal highs, it's
just really, really, really smooth. Do
they need the run up here today of the
day? No. Uh, can it do it? Sure. I'd
like to get the invitation to outline
some kind of framework to get to that
level, but focusing on the lecture
premise this week is looking for things
that are going to be problematic for
your trade. In other words, what what
makes the idea of looking for setups
harder or once you have an opinion?
Okay. Um what makes it difficult to hold
on to it and what challenges will you
find in doing that? Sticking to a bias
or arriving at a bias. Okay. Uh that's
kind of like one of the primary hurdles
for most of you. And my son's no
different. And it was the same thing for
me when I first started learning to do
this in the '9s.
knowing where it's likely to go and also
trying to push away that impulse to I
got to know right now because the
market's trading so I have to get in
there because you're fear of missing
something. There's no reason for you to
fear missing anything because the
market's going to trade tomorrow and the
market's going to trade on Wednesday in
perpetuity until the markets are no
longer available to us. So don't worry
about that. You we have bigger problems
if we can't trade, right?
So, we've worked the new week opening
gap here. I liked how we done this
business in here. And any movement above
here, I'm going to watch and see does it
use the new day opening gap on August
21st. So, words trade above it, come
back down and then aggressively run into
[Music]
this area up in here. It's really
smooth.
Now, I was looking at a two-minute chart
over here because you're probably
wondering like, "Why are you on a
two-minute chart?" ICT, why you why are
you not talking about that? I was
looking at the
gap right in here. I was studying, did
they use this as inversion? Initially,
they did, but they hammered the
consequent encroachment of the new week
opening gap of the 25th and then we have
the uh previous settlement. So, it's
returned back to that. Then dropped
down, displaced below the relative equal
lows. So, sell side's been disturbed.
It's It's all messed up now. And the
market's seeking buy side, which it's
already done by taking this one here.
And this is a little smooth in here.
They've already disrupted that. And in
here up to this high, that's where the
shortterm minor buyside liquidity is.
I'm watching this candle or the next to
see if we can trade down into consequent
encroachment. Don't look at this opening
range gap high thinking that's
consequent encroachment because you can
see it's a little dis it's different
from the low to midpoint between that
high. I'm annotating the opening range
gap high or previous settlement. So
coming down and touching that if it's
bullish that's something we want to see.
Think about what I was outlining when I
was showing you opening range gaps. Let
me show you what it looks like like
this.
Think about it like the opening is here.
Previous settlement is here. That's the
wrong color. So don't
don't think too much about that orange
because I was looking at as inversion
fair value gap studying pre-market
and then the opening up to the previous
settlement which is there. Okay. So, see
4:14 p.m. at the bottom of the chart.
4:14 and then the opening price here
today at 9:30. So, that's your red
trading hours. And now, if we go over to
electronic trading hours,
[Music]
trading above, coming back down into the
opening range gap because we opened
again, opened little unchanged. little
unchanged to me is less than 30 to 40
handles. So if it's if it can't even
muster a difference between previous day
settlement price and 30 to 40 handles
beyond that or away from that at the
opening bell at 9:30,
I'm right away going to sit on my hands
and wait till 10:00. That that is one of
the things that I want Caleb to do is
discern whether or not there's a lot of
excitement, a lot of anticipation. Um, a
lot of things have happened over in the
Middle East and they're starting to heat
up over there. So, there's a little bit
of trepidation right now in the
marketplace. So, they're they're going
to be probably very fickle in delivery
of price today because they want
people's sentiment shown like they want
to see what traders are are doing after
waiting all weekend long. Now, here we
are. The bells rang, the gates are open,
the horses are off their race. Yeah. and
how how is everyone going to plunk down
their money? How are they going to bet?
Are they looking for lower prices? Are
they looking for higher prices? I think
that initially they've offered some
selling here to entice traders to want
to do that very thing. Sell short. I'm
not all that terribly excited about
doing that right now. Um, I do think if
things heat up in the Middle East and
with over in Russia and Ukraine and
China and Taiwan, all those things will
be catalysts to, you know, spur on more
excitement in the marketplace. But right
now, I'm kind of weighing out what it's
wanting to do initially. So, I don't
want to have a hard opinion. I like an
area, which is the buy side. I want to
see if it could give some kind of
framework to get there, but it's in no
hurry to give me a a market structure to
work within. back and forth choppiness
in here. So, the first thing, Caleb, in
your your rules are the rules of
engagement for anticipating a really
easy morning session is are we opening
significantly higher or significantly
lower than previous settlements. So,
obviously today, you know, it's Monday.
We know that Friday is where we settled.
So, when we're looking at the previous
day settlement price, it's Friday's 4:14
p.m. Eastern Standard Time's price. When
we pull up the regular trading hours,
toggling that down here,
that price is the 4:14
p.m. Friday session, regular trading
hours. Now, obviously, it trades for
another 46 minutes and then closes for
the weekend. If it was not Friday, it
would be closing for the day and then
reopening an hour later at 600 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time. So because you
had a very small gap, very very minor
gap that is indicative of a market
that's going to be very reluctant to run
and you have to wait. Let the market
give you more intel. So it helps you
control fear and greed. You know the
FOMO, fear of missing something. Um
every little initial move shouldn't make
you feel like I'm I got to be in here.
it's doing something
and it gives you a sense of relaxation
and not having to be uh impulsive which
is very very important as a trader.
So if you notice that we have had no
diff we have had difficulty rather and
it wasn't easy for it to get to the new
day opening gap of the 21st. So it's
banging up close to it but then fails
aggressively. So now we're back on the
southern end of that opening range gap.
So, think about that blue box there.
It can
work back up in. There's a small little
volume of bounce right there.
Watch that.
Because if we can get back up in to
retest the opening range gap low, that
means the opening price at 9:30.
If it can trade up into that, it might
want to go into that little area there
if it wants to go lower.
But because there is a very very
weak or or anemic gap
from previous settlement on Friday to
where we opened up at. I've already
elected the protocol is I have to wait
till 10:00. I want that full 30 minute
opening range not opening range gap 30
minutes. So 9:30 to 10:00 we're sitting
still. There's nothing for you to do. I
don't care if there's a fair value gap.
I don't care if there's something
exciting that appears on the chart
because we opened very anemically. It's
just it's weak. It hasn't it doesn't
have a whole lot of movement. Now, we
were initially earlier on we had a
really nice potential higher gap
opening, but they completely erased
that. You got real close to this
previous settlement by the time we
opened at 9:30. Notice that. So,
one of the things that you're going to
combat most is the want to be in some
kind of trading.
And especially if you're on social media
watching people like me or watching
other people um talk about what they are
doing in the marketplace. If you're
watching live streamers that have chats,
you can see that other people are
chomping at the bit. They're saying,
"I'm long, I'm short, whatever." And I
I weigh a lot of sentiment
with those types of tools and I view
that as a retail indicator. So watching
other people's live streams, seeing
their level of excitement or if they're
not all that excitement, if they're not
excited about something and I I might
see a directional setup, I may see
something that forms or forming that is
maybe bullish or bearish. And then I see
a lot of comments in other live
streamers saying, and it's not just
that, it's other social media, you know,
venues where if people that are very
chatty, they like to share their
opinion.
The more I have that is the other side
of my perspective, the better I feel
about the idea. And right now, because
of the technicals, we opened, you know,
week, it wasn't that big of a gap. I'm
not interested in trying to form a hard
opinion right away.
And it'll help Caleb and if all of you
are watching that'll also be a solid
foundation to build on using the the gap
because they can't hide the gap
obviously as soon as at 9:30 we open up.
Look at the difference between the
previous days settlement price at 414.
You find that on the lower time frames
but I was using a two-minute chart here
and I was watching how they were using
this gap here to see if we could open up
with a higher gap. If we would have
opened up here maybe at this new day
opening gap or a little bit higher, I
would have looked for the move to drop
down into
the um
new day uh sorry, new week opening gap
on the 25th maybe using consequent
encroachment and then try to get a long
up into this buy side here.
But they took it away and opened us with
a really really weak
discount gap. That means it's a lower
gap opening. So because of that the the
the amount of range and what is I had
one of the students ask me what does a
20 handle move look like.
So see that price here 19,732.
So all the way up to 7,52 even.
That is a 20 handle price move or
fluctuation. Okay. And you can see it's
not much more than that for the opening
range gap. So whenever I see a gap like
that, I'm immediately protocol is sit
still, wait till 10:00, wait for silver
bullet, wait for something that's more
obvious, wait for the first 30 minutes
to get in there. The algorithm is going
to do what it's going to do in the first
30 minutes. And if I get into a trade or
if I try to elect a liquidity I want to
target, I'll tend to be wrong. And I've
seen that over 25 years of using opening
range gaps and forcing that. So I I just
am real comfortable letting them have
the first 30 minutes. And if it's a big
day that I don't want to be a
participant early on, other traders
might be positioned for a better short
or long that may be beneficial for them
holding for the rest of the day. That's
okay. I'm not worried about that.
I'm not forcing myself to be uh to be
right.
And if you look at this low over here on
the 15-minut time frame
there, sell side resting just below
that. So if they want to get real
animated, they can take it down there.
A lot of feedback. very very positive
feedback which I appreciate. Thank you
for that. So I'll drop back into a one
minute chart which is standard for us.
So you can see right away it's a little
disorganized this morning. It's not real
clean. It's a little sloppy. It has a
lot of poor price action in it. That is
just like the volume and balance here of
volume and balance there which you
already offered several times. Um, no
real gap in here except for the wick and
all this spotty delivery taking us down
below the initial
uh sellside that would have been to the
left of us at the opening bell falling
short of the new day opening gap high on
August 21st.
So,
when I'm looking at price and I know
that it's
moving and I'm not in a trade, uh, when
I was a younger man in my 20s, I used to
panic about that because I thought every
run was going to be a 100 point run and
be a big blastoff move because just like
you when you learn something new from
me, uh, you think that it's going to
appear in every, you know, next candle
because now you're keyed up on it And I
felt that way about everything that I
was learning from Larry Williams and his
books and his videos. And I thought for
sure that okay, you know, he's my hero.
I I'm looking for this. I almost got the
word that the uh
the pursuit of finding the new toy in in
the market. So that way I could play
with it. I could I could use it to make
money. And
one of the biggest things you can do is
learn to go slow,
really really slow in the beginning
because you're you're not going to be
able to retain some very valuable
insights about how you think. And if you
go in there chase making money right
away, you're not going to pick up on the
clues that tell you that you're about to
go on tilt. That means you're going to
abandon the trading idea that you went
into initially. You'll either
overleverage or overtrade. Do more than
what's necessary. And it all stems from
not having a plan, not having a process
of what to, you know, follow. And it
needs to be very finite, very specific
rules. And the first element to that
needs to be when are you going to do
something?
Time. Okay? So the market's going to
deliver based on time. And you aren't
going to execute unless you're in a time
period. some little envelope in time
like a macro uh the first 30 minutes. I
mean it may have to transpire. Um a few
of you actually mentioned you thought
that I was making a mistake and you were
correcting me in the comment section.
And while I appreciate your enthusiasm
about that, um the fair value gap that I
was annotating on Friday, uh it did not
displace lower from it. So it's not a
reclaimed bearish uh fair value gap.
That's why if you saw the color of it,
it was gray because I wanted to see does
it send price down once it went below
initially. It just traded down with
wicks. It didn't trade up to it and then
displace lower. It went higher, made a
higher high and then I was I was calling
out lie that I want to see the bottom of
that be used as like a resistance, a
premium array and leave the upper half
open. So, no, I'm not mistaken. No,
you're not correcting me. And I don't
mean that to be condescending, but it
was a inversion fair value gap because I
was anticipating it to do what? I was
looking for the market to
press up into that event horizon and go
into a turtle suit and I wanted to see
it fail at that new day opening gap. I
remember I was telling you I said I'm
not going to go long here but I'm
waiting for it to press up into I said
if it's good if it's really bullish it
will go up and hit that new day opening
gap. But we were pressing into that
balanced price range which is going to
be more formidable.
And when the break when the market broke
below that gap I outlined it real time
to you all that yeah it should act as an
inversion fair value gap. So no I wasn't
mistaken but there's logic behind this
is why I said anybody talks about
inversion fair value gaps or fair value
gaps at all every gap with three candles
does not make it a fair value gap in the
context that you think it is. you you
you don't have all the other tools and
resources and experience of reading what
the narrative and price action is. Go
back and watch Friday's live stream
again, okay? And you'll hear there's
some a lot of things going on with the
least amount of speaking. I've already
talked more today than I did Friday's
whole session.
I'm watching the volume imbalance here.
We already added one tap into it there.
There's the second one.
Now, when you go through
each one of these live streams with me,
whether you're watching whe whether
you're watching it rather live or if
you're watching it later on,
I want you to really spend a lot of time
writing in your journal when you're
taking screenshots that
the difference compare the differences
of the first 30 minutes of trading
with every other day and when I when I
really make a big glowing remark and you
start gushing about how pretty and clean
prices is versus days where it's spotty,
a little disorganized. Those are real
key things to annotate in your journal
because those are the things that's
going to be much more paramount for you
as a day trader.
We just swept that uh that low here on
the 50-minut time frame
and we're inside. We traded inside of an
old buy sign and balance signed
efficiency which is right here.
Okay. So, I'm still working with one one
laptop. Um I don't have anything in
front of me. I don't have any other
screens. I promise in Jesus name I'm not
looking at any I'm literally in my
bedroom right now. So my office is
upstairs. I have not used that one time
since I started doing the 2024
mentorship because I'm trying to help
the individuals that have one device,
one monitor because they think that, you
know, I it only works because I have so
many monitors. And that's not true. It's
just I like to look at a a very
immersive perspective on the
marketplace. And I'm also looking at
other markets sometimes when I'm using
all my screens. So I'm
not leaning on that stuff initially for
you, Caleb, because you're supposed to
be watching price action to get a feel
for how price delivers around time. So
it's not about picking the right
decisions of getting in the right fair
value gap and where your stop loss need
to be perfect and short, not have a lot
of risk. All those things are later. The
first thing is you have to submit to
this process of reading price, being in
front of the charts, retaining the
information as it's being presented.
Every single candle, what is it doing?
How's it behaving?
So, I'm watching this wick here if it
can overtake consequent encroachment of
that and then come back down. And if it
starts showing any kind of support
there, that'd be interesting to see get
back to the opening range gap low.
Otherwise, this is a premium right half
of that wick. If it can go up and touch
it or if it fails to even go there and
starts to break lower, that's indicating
it's very, very weak.
Again, we're not even in 10:00 yet. So,
I'm not interested in framing any trades
at all. These are all things that you're
observing, Caleb. You're trying to make
references to these. As you watch price,
you want to screenshot these things.
Every time I point to something, I'm
saying I'm watching this screen. That's
a key word. I may not say the term, you
know, screenshot it as a prompt because
I'm trying to talk about something while
price is ticking and booking price. But
anytime I make a special reference to
something, okay, if you go back and you
watch the recording and you hear me do
that, that is a time for you to
screenshot it and then you annotate what
your observations are and what actually
happened afterwards. And by doing that
it it provides you a way of referencing,
logging,
and building a understanding of what
these things will do in the future when
you're watching price action. For
instance, like immediate rebalances,
okay? Where you have a run in price.
Perfect example, we have the market stop
with a low right here. Then we have a
big candle that went lower than the
previous candle's low. Okay? It doesn't
matter where we're going next. Okay.
What I'm saying is is things that key up
on your attention that you're you're
saying, "Okay, there's something going
on here. I'm I'm monitoring this." The
very next candle is a large candle down.
And then we have this candle open and it
trades all the way back up and touches
the previous candle's low. So all of
this down candle, the black candle here,
that range is completely
redelivered with buy side. So, if we're
looking at it like this, make it a
little bit wider.
The separation between this candle's low
here and then the big long black candle
that goes down. If this would have
opened here and traded lower, that's
this would have been a fair value gap.
But it opens and trades all the way back
up and touches that. That is called
immediate rebalance.
If it does that when you're bearish,
that's one of the best indications that
you are entering at a like if you want
to trade
imbalances where it completely closes
down. I just found a guy on the internet
on YouTube trying to teach imbalances
and fair value gaps and saying that fair
value gaps are a renaming of of an
imbalance. No, it's actually a very
specific signature where it is not
filling in. I don't want to see it fill
in. That is the superior form of trading
price action. If you're going to look
for these inefficiencies, the highest
order of trading them is you want to see
them not close in. And I've proven this
in live sessions with real trades with
real money. So if we're looking at the
price delivering back up to that level
there, that mechanism right there, it
matters not if it goes higher or lower.
What I'm saying is this right now is
when it does that, as soon as it touches
that candle's low on this candle, it
delivered down and the next candle opens
and rolls right back over top of all of
the down move from this candle's low
right there
to where we opened. All of this has been
redelivered back to that price. So, this
is efficient. If it's bearish, that's
really strong. Or if you're in a trade
and it starts creating these types of
things and it goes right back up, then
you can say, "All right, I expect it to
trade aggressively lower. It's done what
it needs to do to rebalance, repric, and
it need to do it real quick and sudden."
It's kind of like showing the hand of of
a winning card hand at in poker. If
you're a partner that you're at the
table with and they flash their hand to
you and they're sitting with a full
house, four aces and and a king spade,
like it's going to be hard to beat that,
right? So,
um, this that's what the algorithm is
doing. It's kind of like tipping its
hand saying, you know, I'm getting ready
to do something really stunning. One
directional and an immediate rebalance
is one of the purest forms of reading it
in price action. So, when you see that,
it kind of like promotes large range. It
promotes speed. It gives you a lot of
indication the market wants to behave a
certain way and a certain
characteristic.
And you can see it happening here that
way.
So, it did it there and then boom, he
took out the low. That in itself might
be your model.
This guy's like the candyman just got
all this stuff all the time. Just boom,
he says it and it happens in real time.
What else do you want? What else do you
need? I got lots of stuff. I got stuff
that you're going to fall in love with
that you didn't even think you knew you
wanted.
All righty, let's go. And we have the
complete closure of this buy sign and
balance sell sign and efficiency. So I
want to annotate that so you can see
where we're at in relationship to the
one minute chart
and we'll do this. We'll do an a weird
little
color like that
and we'll extend it to the right and you
can see how we are behaving like that.
So look over here in the 15-minut time
frame. It's this big up close candle.
the previous candle's high, which is
this one right
there. Good. That's the problem with
having all these different charts. It's
going to aggravate me when I'm trying to
look at certain things. And it didn't
quite get down to that. That's enough.
So, your model might be, let's say,
you're bearish and you you feel
comfortable being short. You want to
look for sellside. Wonderful. One of the
strongest indications of you're about to
see a price run. That's one one
direction and it's going to be nice
quick sudden big candles
as we were outlining here. Big down
close candle immediate rebalance right
there. Now what happens if this candle
that opens right here after this big
down close candle when that forms? What
happens if the next one doesn't go right
back to that candle's low right there?
It's valid if it does it on the next
candle, but after that it's not.
So immediate rebalance is the single
candle that creates a big range lower
and a lower close. The candle must be
larger. Larger than what? Well, what's
look at all the ranges once this has
formed. This stands out against all the
other previous ranges, right? It works
on all time frames.
So, if you're a very short-term scalper,
or if you're in a trade and you're
waiting for price to give you that last
little bit of movement and you get a
candle like this, if you are short and
you want to get short or add a pyramid,
soon as you anticipate this candle
closing, as soon as it closes, watch
where we open on the next one.
Anticipate, feel comfortable with it
running right back up to that candle's
low. If you're short already from some
higher place, this is not a reversal.
But you'll see so many people so many
people online that are sharing their
observations live or if they'll they'll
share their sentiment about what the
market has just done, they'll be trying
to influence live streamers that are
actually taking the time to trade in
front of other people. Um the the people
in the chat will say, "Oh, it's
reversing because it's done something
like this." because they've read Steve
Nielson's books or they have read some
other kind of retail logic and they
think, "Okay, this is this is going to
reverse." Now,
the only thing it's doing is exactly
what you want to see it do when when
you're bearish. You want to see it run
right back up, rebalance that. And if it
didn't do it on this candle, the next
candle, if it went and touched it, then
I would expect speed delivery to the
downside. Okay? So
when I'm prompting you in the live
stream and I'm making specific reference
to watch this inefficiency, watch this
fair value, pay attention to this wick.
Those are prompts there. That's me
prompting you, Caleb, to this is what I
want to go back in and look at what it
did later on at the end of the day or at
the end of the session. Not for you.
It's it's for the end of the session. So
by 11 o'clock or something to that
effect. All right. So we're in five
minutes into the 10 o'clock hour. So,
we've had 35 minutes or so of opening
range.
We could not get all the way down to
this run here on the 15-minute buy side
and bounce sell sign efficiency. So, we
took out relative equal lows. This low.
I got to make sure I slow down that way
you can see what I'm pointing to. I make
this mistake often. This low and this
low, upper lefthand corner chart. So
those two
are relative equal lows.
We have traded down through that, but we
didn't close in the entirety of that buy
sign and balance sell sign efficiency,
which is this candle right there, this
big 15-minute candle.
So that is seen with this little area
down here. So let's say we are
anticipating
a turn in the marketplace. How can you
study that? Well, we have an indication
that it couldn't get all the way down to
the buy side on the bounce sellside
inefficiencies low on the 15-minut time
frame. We are seeing an initial uh run
back to but look where the bodies are.
So, it hasn't proven anything yet. Even
though we had a little wick here, the
bodies are saying no, it's not there
yet. So, sit still, relax. Don't try to
catch the turn. Don't try to catch the
bottom. Don't try to pick the bottom.
It's,
you know, yet they say, if you try to
pick your bottom, you're going to get
stinky fingers. So now watch the wick
here.
That's consequent encroachment
right there at that 19,701.
Somebody just leaned over there. He said
he said he get stinky fingers.
This guy has jokes.
So far, we're only working with the
rejection block, which is the lowest
down close candle price, closing price.
It swept that here, but we're still
inside that 15minute
discount buy sell efficiency. Not trying
to pick the bottom, not trying to pick
the top, not we're not in any position
right now. We're just watching and
observing price. Real relaxed, taking in
information. If there's going to be
something obvious, it'll be obvious.
Right now, it's not. There's nothing in
here that I would have expected my son
to see and capitalize on. So, that's the
main takeaway from this, Caleb, is while
you're watching this, you might be
looking and saying, "Man, I don't see
anything." And that's normal. That's
exactly what I want you to have that
perspective because nothing is there yet
for your model.
having a model, having a context, if you
will, of what you're watching price for.
If it's
not in the price action, if the thing
that you're trying to capitalize on,
trade on, frame a um a setup around, if
it's not obvious in price action, why
are you worrying?
It's just indicating you're impatient.
You're fearing a missed move that
someone else is going to probably come
back later on and say, "This is what I
did." And maybe they did do it. Most of
the time, they probably didn't. All
right. So, we finally snapped through
the 15-minut time frame, buy sell
efficiency. So, now this inefficiency
that we just traded through offer the
opportunity for this to act as an
inversion fair value. So, now we can
watch the lower end of this here. So,
that would look like this. We can take
the
Yeah, that's the midpoint line. That
level right here. So, this level here is
half of this shaded area. If it wants to
return back in, it's bearish as long as
it does not go back above
that midpoint. It can wick to it and
through it, but it's better for it just
trades back up into here and falls from
that, not return to the upper half of
it.
Scrunch this up. You can see where we
have a lot of that new day opening gap
and new week opening gap. That's a big
big draw because it's layered. They're
all nested together. We had that new day
opening gap from the 23rd and we have
the n what is that
18th of August's new week opening gap.
So a real nice setup would be something
like watching it trade up into that
15-minute fair gap that we traded
finally through. And notice I was
telling you we were back here. Think I
said nothing's happened yet. You can't
try to pick the bottom yet. Anybody
tried to capture long here, they got
stinky fingers now. You pick your
bottom, you're going to get [__] on your
hands basically. So, you have the body's
telling you, "No, we have not turned
around yet." What is it respecting? The
fair value gap on that 15-minute time
frame that I've been drawing your
attention to. So, while we did have that
immediate rebalance here and it rolled
down, it came right back up to the high
end of that 15-minute fair value gap,
but did not close out of it. The bodies
are saying, "Watch me. Hello, neon sign.
Nothing's happened yet. Everything is
still in motion going lower." So, if
that's the case, what are you looking
for? What's below this 15-minute fair
value gap? Well, we can have the new
week opening gap and new day opening
gap. These levels in here, like I said,
last Friday,
they're like a big black hole when
they're nested together like that. Like,
it's it's such a huge influence on
drawing price to them. So, like I said,
it would have been nice for it to offer
a return back into that 15-minute fair
value gap or get into this cibby here
between this candle's high and that
candle's low. Get up to that halfway
point there. Say it fails to even touch
that. Well, then that means it never
would touch this. Then it would probably
aggressively run down with large ranges
and very, you know, sudden quick
delivery.
And you had the sell side below here on
that low
which is
591 and 3/4.
So that's an old low right here.
Okay. You can see that price in the
upper leftand corner and I put the
cursor just underneath it.
19,591.75
[Music]
There's a mosquito in here. I'm trying
to let it out the door.
It's flying everywhere but the door.
Why?
When I get to heaven, I'm going to ask
God, why did he create mosquitoes
syringes?
It's a male. They don't bite. But still,
I don't mind them in the room.
That's something that would have been uh
edited out of a recorded video, by the
way. But we're live, so it needs to be
left in here, I guess. So, so far it's
respecting the lower level
of this wick here.
this.
And I can tell you, and I said it last
week, um these lectures that I give you
this week are going to be the le the le
the least loved, liked, or appreciated
lessons. But when you go out and you try
to use this information and you don't
study with the things I'm talking about
in these, you're going to have problems
that are going to arise and you're not
going to be able to pull the information
out with successful trades or ideas or
you're going to rush to try to make
money before you really understand or
use the stuff.
And later on, you're going to come back
later on, probably months, years later,
because you're going to try other stuff.
And you're not going to do well with
that. And you're going to think that,
well, let me just see what I do if I go
back and listen. And you're going to
think, wow, he said these things and I
fell victim to all that stuff. If I just
would have listened to those lectures,
focused on slowing down,
demand that price is giving you
something that's obvious.
Obviously, you know, you don't have the
information that you should have as a
profitable trader or someone that's
consistently able to do it correctly.
So when I'm making annotations or
talking them about them as we were
talking about here with the immediate
rebalance and then when it was trading
just a little outside of that I told you
look nothing's happened yet. It hasn't
turned. We're not trying to pick the
bottom yet. And this is telling you that
we have proven with the bodies. It's
telling you the narrative that nothing
has changed. So the momentum and and the
delivery of price is lower. So all it's
doing is returning to a premium level
which is the high of that 15minute fair
value gap which we want to see it behave
as an inversion fair value gap. It's
showing that it's showing that signs
here. But when we outlined this larger
um discount array being in the chart
when we brought it up like this,
this is a target. But if you would have
waited for it to trade to that level,
that could be a model for you. But this
right here is not indicating that we
were turning it. Go back and listen to
the stream.
But those are the things that you have
to watch that are problematic. So, if
you're looking for setups, if you ignore
what price is doing
and you're not taking in the intel that
it's providing to you, information
that's going to be helpful to you or
cancelling if it nullifies any interest
in the marketplace,
you have to be thankful that you can
take that out of price action and not
look at it, well, I missed a move. I
hate that I missed a move. It's so
frustrating. Why?
If you're if you're brand new and you're
trying to learn how to do this,
it's normal for you to feel like it's
not easy. It's normal for you to feel
like it's never going to happen for you.
That's a normal thing when you're trying
to say, "I should already be trading
with real money profitably."
Sure. I mean, if someone picks up a golf
club, me, because I hate golf, it would
be unrealistic for me to say, you know,
I'm gonna pick up a golf club and be
able to uh putt or drive a golf ball
like Tiger Woods because I've watched
Tiger Woods so many times on TV in the
in the the highlight reel. So,
therefore, I should know how to do what
he does and be able to do the same thing
because I've watched him do it so many
times. And that's unfortunately the same
misconception that a lot of students
have because they've watched lots of ICT
videos. And that's the that's not the
same thing as watching real-time price
action and looking for the things that I
teach as PDAs signatures in price. How
the characteristic of that price run is
indicative of a sustained run or is it
just reaching for the next inefficiency
or liquidity to make a reversal. There's
a lot of things that you have to
discern. And in the natural progression
of going through that by watching price
and not rushing yourself to know
something, you're you're learning every
single time you're in front of charts.
If you're watching price action with me
live or you're watching price without
me, but you're just watching price as
long as you are managing your
expectations and you're not trying to
force the the idea of I need to be in a
trade. I need to be in a trade. So
therefore, uh the outcome is the make it
or break it or success or failure.
That's the grading of it. And if you're
trying to grade yourself on that
premise, you're going to be very hard to
encourage to keep going forward. And
it's not just my material. That that
mindset usually is adopted to whatever
else they go and chase. So whatever
method or whatever uh school of thought
for trading they sit down in front of
and they try to trade with, they're
going to fail at that too because they
first have to have the proper mindset.
And that's what I'm trying to do with
you, Caleb, is relax you, remind you
that you're not expected to trade like
me. You're not expected to know every
little fluctuation and be able to
determine what it's going to do and how
it's going to behave. That's not
realistic. What is your what is your
priority right now is number one to move
slow.
Let anything that becomes important to
you manifest itself. It's got to it's
got to show itself in the chart and say,
"Okay, I see this and this is causing me
a concern or question and I'm curious or
I have a doubt about something being
there that maybe I should be looking
at." That's all normal. And you write
those questions down in your journal.
And then when we sit down with each
other on Saturdays, you'll be able to
tell me, "This is what it is. This is
what's on my mind right now." And I'll
tell you, well, this is what you do with
this question or concern. Or I'll answer
it for you. or I'll tell you that's not
even something that you should be
worrying about because there's going to
be a lot of that stuff in the beginning.
You know, worrying about the things that
are not important in the beginning is a
huge time waster. And while I do have a
lot of content and my videos tend to be
long, it's meant to save you years of
doing stuff that's not fruitful
versus listening to a lecture. I if you
were in college, say I was a college
professor and I wasn't teaching trading,
I was teaching, you know, economics or I
was teaching psychology, you'd have to
hear me drone on and on and on.
So why are you trying to short, you
know, shortcut it all? You're here to
learn it. You're you're trying to get a
PhD in price action. So every time you
sit down with me, that's what we're
doing. We're focusing on the things that
are going to be very important things
that you don't think are important right
now, but when you start watching your
trades in the future,
like for instance, you may have when
we're looking like this, I guarantee you
somebody out there was seeing this low,
this low, and this low, and they're
thinking, "Okay, that's a three drives
pattern." And then they saw this big run
like this. I say big, but it's not
really, but it was sudden run right up
in here. And when this candle was
bullish, it looked like it was a
reversal to them. And they probably
already had a trade being recorded so
they can go on social media and say, "I
did this against ICT." And they're doing
all the wrong things, too. They're
trying to look right instead of staying
here and learning how to read price
action correctly. But I told you the
bodies were telling you nothing has
changed. Nothing has changed. And the
only thing we've done is we've left this
small little portion open down here on
the 15-minute time frame. And we want to
see that shaded area become a inversion
fair value gap. So that means you use
the high in the midpoint.
It trades up to it. It rejects it and
goes to lower half. At that time you
don't ever want to see it go back above
the midpoint.
Ideally you want to see it trade once it
leaves it here. Go up and bump that wick
into it and wick just below the midpoint
or consequent encroachment and then
leave. And the very next fair value gap
because we're on a one minute uh chart
right now. If it were to do something
like that on a 15-second 30 secondond
chart, 45 second chart, the first fair
value gap once it leaves the inversion
fair value gap and it displaces outside
of it, the very next 15, 30 second or
45se secondond fair value gap. Once it
trades into that institutional orderflow
entry drill, use that and then target
the next sellside liquidity or
inefficiency. And I told you last week
that this is like a huge black hole.
And we were up here and I said it's
going to draw into that. It's a very
very large um
magnet. Okay. It's going to it's going
to suck price in and it's going to
gravitate to it. And there's nothing
that you're going to find in in retail
logic that's going to tell you that. But
you you're learning it. And Caleb needs
to target new day opening gaps and new
week opening gaps for his draw
liquidity. So while we're not pressing a
button today, we're not taking any
trades today, we're not engaging price,
we're observing. And you're watching how
price behaves with a very weak gap, a
very very small weak gap. And that's
back here. So, it's not it's not all
that terribly influential for me to
frame a bias around what I'm building
for my son. Is there other things that I
have to trade with that information?
Yes. But if I start pulling out every
tool and every other thing I know, is he
really learning that model? No.
But having the expectation of navigating
conditions that his model is not going
to be excelling in. In other words,
there isn't a trade for him yet. There's
there's nothing for him yet.
The breakdown out of this in inversion
fair value a gap on the 15-minute time
frame. There is no gap in here. 10:00 is
here.
Right there. Okay. So, he has to find a
fair value gap.
No fair value gaps.
small one there. Nice one. It could have
been there. I even talked about it live
with you. I said it'd be nice to see it
go up in there because that would be a
real nice model for it to shoot from
here down to the new week opening gap,
new day opening gap that's nested here
before it traded down there.
Look at the bodies
right on that high of the new day
opening gap from August 23rd. Your
support and resistance lines aren't
going to tell you that. Okay? your
pitchforks.
They're not going to tell you. They're
not going to tell you that. Okay. Um the
the model that he's being
pushed into like a mold, okay? He's my
son. I can do that. But I am realistic
and I know that millions of you out
there watching this are not going to be
pressed into the same mold. It doesn't
work that way. But for him, I have to
give him a baseline foundation. And I
said to him, I said it to you openly, he
may not stay with the fair value gap as
his model, but it it has to give him
something to start with and it makes him
familiar with reading price action. So
it gives him I gave the analogy if I
take you know five red apples and one
green apple and your challenge is to
stand with your eyes closed and I throw
all of them up in the air and then
you're told to open your eyes up and
just grab the green one. your eyes are
going to open up and see all these
things moving around and you're not
going to have the experience, the time,
and the skill level to go race straight
for the green one because our our eye go
rate goes right to movement. And we're
we're watching price action all the
time. If you're looking at live price
action, you're you're constantly
distracted with fluctuations in price.
and you're like a dog in a in a meat
market where the the the first thing
that can dangle within your distance of
of being able to bite it and eat it.
That's what they're going to go after.
It doesn't care if there's filet man
over to the right. If there's a a strip
of bacon just hanging down long long
enough close enough to their snout
that's sniffing to almost lick it,
they're going to go for that
the wagoo beef, okay, to the left of
them. They don't care about that. It's
the first chomp and and I'm going to get
something. That's retail perspective. So
the way you remove that and say, "Okay,
I want a choice cut of meat. I'm going
in to eat today. That's the intention.
I'm going to go in and I want to take
something home. I want to take my pound
of flesh, but I don't want to go out
there and just chase everything." So
now, if I teach you to have the
perspective of close your eyes, you only
have been studying the green apple.
That's your PDA. That's your not your
PDA, your PD uh your PDA. You want to
have uh your focus keyed up, your
reticular activating system by doing
what we're doing here, which is watching
price action. You can see this by
watching my recordings. You don't have
to have real time data. Watch my old
video recordings that I'm doing in live
stream and study what price is doing.
You don't even have to listen to me
talk. Just study what price is doing.
And when it does certain things, pause
the video and then go into your charts
and annotate that. Dress that up so that
way it's in your charts.
It's in there and you keep a running log
of a template that has your
observations. Every single day they're
there. And as long as you go back in
time and you zoom out your chart that
shows you this much information, your
annotations will be there and you refer
to how it behaved in the delivery and
building of the weekly range. And that's
what you do on the weekend. But when the
market is not providing you a model, you
don't feel any regret. You don't think
you don't say, "Well, I'm throwing this
model out because it didn't give me a
setup today.
Oh, but this this model is better.
Trading inversion fair value gaps are
better. I'm going to do that because
that's what worked today in live stream
for ICT and Kayla's model doesn't have a
setup yet. So, doesn't that mean it's
better than Kayla's model? No. That's a
that's a myopic
toxic thought. You're trying to cut
corners. You're trying to force your
model to be in every day, every instant,
every session. No, that's the problem.
That's a problem within the way you're
thinking. And you have to relax yourself
and say, "I'm only interested in price
if it shows me what I'm looking for. And
if it's not going to give it to me, that
means I have to wait." And there's
nothing wrong with that. You can't act
like a child that sees the big sucker in
the store aisle and yes, it convinced
its mother or father to buy it for them.
But just because they have it now in the
cart doesn't mean they get to eat it
right now. So it's a matter of managing
your expectations, controlling your
impulsive nature that you want to do
something and you're willing to break
your model and abandon your plan just to
be a part of something and that is not
conducive for consistently profitable.
In fact, it creates such a huge matter
of anxiety, second-guessing yourself
because you're not submitting yourself
to watching price and say, "This is the
model I'm looking for, and I'm going to
wait for that." And if it doesn't do it,
guess what that means? I had no losing
trade today.
I didn't spend commission. I didn't have
losing trade, but I had gained much more
experience in patience.
a a lesson learned in patience. Forging
patience, fighting off fear of missing
out, FOMO, fighting off the greed,
fighting off the the natural tendency to
feel like you belong here.
uh one of the ladies that uh have
recently been commenting on the the
content
mentioned that uh I believe
I don't want to say your name because
I'm afraid that they they'll bring you
know who you are but the uh
she said that she had folks
being highly critical of her and because
it's more or less viewed as a man's
industry and I'm going to say this again
and I know the young men don't like this
they say I'm sing.
I had to look that up. I didn't know.
I'm 52. I'm usually I'm pretty close to
what's going on, but I had to look up
what sing is. But uh
my best students are women. My most
profitable students are women. They have
a vagina. Okay. Um if that hurts you, if
that bothers you, oh well, that's your
problem. Okay. But they are more
inclined to think like I'm trying to
teach my son here is to not rush.
They're not out there trying to you know
show it to the uh you the girls club,
the women's club, the girls night out,
the first wives club, okay? They're not
out there saying look what I did today.
Look how much more I did better than all
of you. They're not doing that. They're
trying to get good at it because they
want to be able to be independent. They
want to be able to hold on to the ideas
that they can do this without anyone
else doing it for them. And weak-minded
men don't like that. They don't like
that. And it's too much competition. And
I'm telling you, okay,
women have a built-in advantage in
trading and investing because they don't
take silly risks and they don't trade
with ego. That's why my best students
are women and that's why my best
profitable students that have been
longer term profitable than the males
because they are not trying to look
smart on the internet.
And you can borrow that logic,
gentlemen, from them. The way they're
thinking in terms of not trying to be
aggressive. They're not trying to be
better than everybody else. They're just
trying to do it well enough that they're
comfortable in their own skin as a
trader. And it's hard for women to do
this industry because there you go. That
almost hit our
almost hit it, didn't it?
There it is. Perfect. So when you have
women trying to do this and and and
they're met with opposition from the
very toxic male, you know, attitude
that, you know, we're better than you.
We're barbarians and you you you should
be knitting. You should be you making me
a sandwich like the lady said in the
comment, which I thought was funny. the
uh
you have to relax and just say
there might be a woman out there that's
going to be better than you even at the
highest form of your
trading where you think you've met the
highest peak of your uh next woman we
got down here.
And if that wrecks you mentally or
psychologically that is a woman out
there is so much better than you and you
can't even do what they're doing. you
have some growth there for you. You have
some opportunity.
But I don't ever see any ladies out
there,
you know, flexing and saying, "I'm I'm
better than this when I'm" Well, that's
not entirely true. I did see one I did
see one on Twitter last year, but you
know, I muted her. Um, not physically,
but I shut her down the way she was act
because it wasn't ladylike and it was
just toxic. But you don't usually see
that. But the men, absolutely. And this
is why I'm trying to tell my son, when
you get good at this,
you're you're literally gonna feel like
you want to go out there and smack
people around because maybe you saw
something was said about me or that or
what it is I've done my entire life. And
women aren't usually like that.
And that's why they make the most money.
That's why they're better traders. They
have far less executions.
they have far less fluctuations in their
uh P&L and their equity curve is much
much smoother
because they're not they're not
impulsive in a manner like a man is
because we have to show that we can do
it. We have to do it. It's in our
nature. We have to prove it. We have to
prove that we can do it. Where women
generally because of their their mindset
and the way they're wired, they want
stability.
They want continuity. think like they're
they're naturally they're naturally made
and created as the person between us,
the two sexes, and there's only two of
them. When they're birthing a child,
they have the the miracle in them that
they can produce that and produce
another person. And before that child is
born, they're nesting. And I know this
by experience because I've had multiple
children. I have five kids. And I've
seen how a woman changes. And there's a
level of responsibility that kicks in
that when I was a young dad, I I didn't
have that. I was I was scared. I was
like, "Am I ready for this?" She's not
worried about this. She's like, "I got
to get the house ready. I got to get
this ready. We got to do this. We got to
do." And she knew exactly what needed to
be done, how it needed to be done. And
my mind was just swirling around. Am I
really ready for this? See, that's the
thing. And in trading, it's the same
thing that happens when price is moving
around, gyrating, delivering price. Men
are like, "What's going on? What's going
on?" And the woman is saying, "Is there
something for me to do right here?"
Because I'm not trying to do things that
are outside of what's my responsibility
right here. My responsibility is my
model. And women tend to, and I've
trained a lot of people over the years,
women tend to be more responsible.
They're more principal oriented. They're
much more acclimated to following rules
and procedures and sticking to them.
Where men are like, "I'm going to try to
reinvent the wheel. I don't want to
listen to this other guy. I want to make
it my own. I'm going to change it a
little bit. And the women don't do that.
And if you look at the statistics, the
women are making more money. The women
are better traders. And
that might hurt you if you're a man. If
you're a young 20-year-old or if you're
a teenager and you feel like, I couldn't
learn from a woman. Well, when I bought
Street Smart's book, I recognized that
that was a woman that co-authored that
book. I didn't know who she was. I just
noticed that that was a woman that wrote
that book. I didn't have any initial
trepidations about that. And her
comments in that book helped me
understand stop runs and stop hunts that
because I didn't understand before. And
I could be out here saying, "Oh, I never
learned from one." But that woman gave
me one of the biggest insights I've had
about reading why I was losing in
trades. I didn't understand that that
was a thing. I just thought I was just
doing it wrong and that's all there was
to it. So,
you have to be real careful, Caleb, in
the beginning by trying not to mold an
expectation on yourself that you have to
be better than the next person. You
don't have to live up to dad's ability.
You don't have to even do one percentage
of of it. It's your progress that's
important and where you go as a trader.
You you could be better than me because
I'm teaching you these lessons where so
many people don't realize they waste
time worrying about stuff like this.
And if you don't build those toxic
thoughts and if you don't build these
Olympic level feats that you have to
live up to because you want to be able
to be looked at in the community as a
pillar, as a titan, as a as a legend.
Don't worry about those things. Those
things are not important. They're not
going to make you more money. They're
not going to make you trade better. In
fact, if you look at those types of
things, it makes it harder for you to
trade because you have to live up to
that expectation. The women in this
industry, they're not out there trying
to live up to any expectations. They're
not trying to be superheroes. They're
not trying to be Wonder Woman of
trading. But think about how every man
wants to be Superman.
They all want to be impervious to
losing. Never happens to them. They
never call it wrong. They don't have a
kryptonite. But if you're Superman,
you're always going to have a Lex
Luthor. You're always going to have a
villain. You're gonna have a legion of
doom that's going to be coming after
you. And if you entice enough people to
pay that much attention to you and make
it about image, they're going to troll
you. They're going to cause you to
second doubt certain things. And then
when you do anything in the future, it's
going to be measured on what are they
going to think about me versus what does
my model say? Should I be doing anything
here? Should I be trading at all today?
That's the right perspective. And women
tend to do that better than men. So in
my opinion, women are better traders.
Period. Convince me otherwise. So
it is 10:38.
All right, I'll talk for two more
minutes and I'm going to close this one.
What I want you to do in this, Caleb, is
go through all the delivery
on the one minute chart, the five and
the 15-inut time frame. match up
everything that any kind of retracement
any up close candle every up close
candle rather on a one and five minute
chart you want to find the reference
point on the 15 in relationship to where
it's reaching where it's traded to here
I want you to note every inefficiency
all the ones that stayed open
and I want you to note where we close at
noon what the closing price is at noon
and everything prior to that is the am
session run. I want you to study all
that and share with me this evening your
observations. Tell me what you see and
obviously those things will be shared
with uh the folks on your on your
YouTube channel. But
nothing in here should have caused you
to feel like I need to chase it. It
should have been fun watching it
gravitate down to this new day opening
gap nested with a new uh new week
opening gap. We had a level here that
and we outlined on the 15-minut time
frame old low it traded that and
accelerated down through next candle
opens wicks up overlaps the new day
opening gap and then the acceleration to
the downside.
So in closing let's take a quick look at
the five minute
[Music]
I don't like these kind of lessons I
see. Okay,
you won't do well then.
You want to take a screenshot like that.
Annotate your observations and
sell side here
[Music]
time frame. You want to annotate
your observations on this
with
that chart like that.
[Music]
And just for my own personal taste, I
want to see what it looks like on a
60-minute chart.
4 hour
[Music]
right here
into the afternoon and into overnight
going into tomorrow.
You want to have this
that sell side and this buy side and
balance sell side efficiency. What is
going to be important for me? Now, this
is me taking Caleb out of the equation
just for the sake of him and all of you
watching. This delivery here on that one
single candle overlaps this single
candle right there. Normally, this would
be viewed as a balanced price range
because it's offered sell side and then
over here starts at the same level here.
Here
buy side's been offered. So, this range
is sent lower and back up. So, it's
offered both sides. If it starts to go
into this and it's filling it with
speed, then we have changed in in a
degree that's going to start sending us
lower for weeks, not just a day or two.
So that's what I'm using this
information here. I I want to see if we
can get into this area. Is it doing it
fast? Because it should not do it fast.
So you look at this and say, "Oh yeah,
this is one of those areas where it's
open traffic." Okay, it's going to be
easy for price to get down into that.
Not if you're looking at it at the same
time that it's delivered like that. If
it does it quick, if it trades down here
and does it quick, that's indicating
that we have turned the corner up here.
And then we're probably going to want to
trade lower on a low on a higher time
frame. There's a lot of interest,
especially with all the stuff that's
going on around the world. There's a lot
of w you paying attention going on. And
right below here,
I see that getting attacked before we
get to the holidays.
And that's a, you know, it's a big move.
So, kind of like showing you my cards,
if you will, but it has to do what I
just outlined moments ago.
So, we traded below there. Next sellside
of any importance is here because this
has already upset those relative equal
lows as well. So that is key sellside
liquidity. This inefficiency we have to
watch going forward if we can get into
that. And let's just put it on the
charts. It's there
and then I'm done for today.
All right. And then change that to
light blue because it's a discount
array.
All right. And that's the business for
today. I promise you these lectures this
week won't feel sexy. They won't be
like, "Wow, that was a barn burner like
we've been doing for the first three
weeks." But these are the parts that are
going to help you the most. Because me
coming out here demonstrating ability
and prowess and calling trades out,
there's lots of things I could show that
are not in his model today and I would
look great and people would leave
comments and it'd be a sugarfest and
coma inducing uh, you know, loving
comments all over the place. I had three
or four of them that said, you know, one
of them was
STFU,
some punk. and uh he you get to say
something at one time, but the uh the
majority was everything else is really
really nice. And a couple other people
are like, you know, it's they're still
confused. Well, if you just sat down and
started learning, that's a normal
feeling. No one learns how to do it
right away. It's it's not something
that's going to be easily learned, but
we're we don't have a time limit on this
because it's my son. So, I'm putting him
through the the ropes the way it should
be, how it should be done, and I'm
giving him all of the reminders that
it's normal for you to sometimes feel
like you didn't get something out of
this. But if you look at it that you're
not trading with real money before you
should have and you didn't lose
anything. So, what are you doing? You're
keeping yourself from picking up toxic
thinking. You're looking at it properly.
You're observing price. We had
objectives. We were watching price and
it delivered. That's how you should feel
about it. You should feel that we were
able to see where it could gate to,
where it could reach to.
That was here
from here. Soon as we saw that this the
bodies were not indicating that we were
going to leave the fair value gap on the
50-minut time frame bullishly leaving it
going higher.
Your eye is still looking for sellside
liquidity. Your eye is looking for
discount arrays. You're looking for
discount inefficiencies. That's all this
stuff here.
And when you're new, you don't have the
ability to find a trade right away. And
before that, you don't even know where
it's going. Where can it likely draw to?
How do you know that? How do you know
when the market's not likely to continue
running? as I indicated in here,
one, two, three drives or in the book uh
street smarts they call it three three
Indians. Why are they not getting clout
uh chasing uh police to tell them that
they renamed a three drives pattern,
right? But there's logic in reading
price action like this in a relaxed
state where you're not trying to impress
anybody. You're not trying to press a
button. You're taking information.
You're collecting it and you're
observing. You're going to look back at
this price run here
three, four, five, six months from now.
If you've done it, if you took the time
to go through and and look at the
observations you make today and make
that in your journal. And then when you
look at it half a year from now, six
months from now, next summer, when
you're looking at price action, you're
going to see so many things that you
don't see right now. And it's going to
be so obvious to you that it's there,
but you can't recognize it right now.
And it may be your second or third model
that you see. You don't have to have
just one. I have models that I work with
in in markets that are choppy listless
type lethargic price action. And I have
models that will do very, very well in
that. But they won't work well in
trending models. If I know the market's
likely to trend,
I got three or four models that do very,
very well at that.
I have models that are focusing on
reversals. I have models that trade the
market maker buy and sell models. I have
models that simply trade intraday
volatility and I'm buying and selling
all day long. Up, down, up, down, up,
down, up, down. That's enigma.
I don't need a bias for that. I don't
need long-term draws on it. I don't need
anything. I don't need any PDA rays. I
don't need any of that stuff for that.
but to communicate in a language for
you, my children, to understand it and
for anyone that wants to make themselves
available to learn it with them.
This is the language I've created. So
that way you can see it, learn it, and
then go into price action using that
language and then you will see what your
model is and it's not me pushing you to
it.
Think about what we showed so far. We
have the optimal trade entry which was
the longest running flagship setup on my
YouTube channel. And then you had my
daughter's model 2022. Then you had
silver bullet which is Cameron's model.
And now you're seeing that the new day
opening gap, new week opening gap with a
fair value gap, the first presentation
of that. That's Caleb's model.
So silver bullet's always there. Every
single day silver bullet is there. I've
seen a couple people putting videos out
saying it don't work anymore. They
changed it. Again, I don't want to have
the conversations anymore because number
one, it's it's obviously discounted and
you can discard that logic by simply
going in with the right way of looking
at what it's doing,
but they want it to be perfectly easy.
And because they can't do it, they want
to put the message out there because
that way their followers don't expect
them to try to be able to do it
effectively because they're saying it's
changed. It's not changed. Nothing's
changed. The date is changing. Your
calendar date is changing. The logic of
making these markets go up and down,
that's never changing. And you should be
comfort comfortable accepting that. It
doesn't mean that you're going to be
able to engage with price action every
single day with your model. You might
see a setup form and you might second
guess it and not take it and it runs.
How are you going to feel about that,
Caleb?
Are you going to be mad that you doubted
yourself
and then it ran and you could have made
money? You could have done something to
impress dad. You could have said, "Look
at this, Dad." But you didn't do
anything. And now you're thinking, "I
don't have anything to show him."
And I'm releasing that for you right
now. You do not do that. What what's
impressive to me is you didn't feel
comfortable taking the trade even though
you saw it. You didn't feel comfortable
with it. Something about it didn't feel
right and you didn't press into it.
You've monitored price and it delivered.
The takeaway is you controlled yourself.
You didn't break the model. You didn't
chase price after it started moving
after your model spoke. That's what I'm
impressed by. I'm impressed by that you
saw that it was there. I'm impressed by
that.
That's normal progress. That's the thing
that you should be focusing on. But
unfortunately, we as humans, we do not
want to see it like that. We look at it
as we missed money. We missed an
opportunity and I'm an idiot because I
couldn't take my model and execute on
it. And you beat yourself up verbally.
You're driving to and from work thinking
about what you could have did right
versus the things I'm telling you that
dad sees that you will be doing right
and I'm pleased by. because that's the
stuff that keeps you in this industry
long enough for you to get the
experience to be consistently profitable
and the experience that you glean over
time will help you fare it out. Picking
the right ones that you want to be a
part of.
There's going to be times when your
model's going to say, "Yep, it's a t
it's a time to trade. It's it's there."
And you're going to say, "You know what?
The daily chart, what it's been doing,
what we got in that calendar later today
or later in the week, I'm not touching
this one. I'm just going to watch it.
And if it moves, great. I'm entertained
by that. It just gives me one more
little nudge of assurityity that I know
what I'm doing and what I'm looking for.
But if you make every fluctuation and
every single time you sit in front of
charts about making money before you
know how to make money, you're going to
lose money.
And that will repeat all the time. And
the only thing you're going to get from
that is regret, toxic what if thinking.
And you're going to be fearful to take
setups in the future. You're going to be
fearful that it won't work because you
are forcing inexperience to deliver
Olympic feet results and that doesn't
ever work. It never works. So when dad
tells you to relax, don't look for these
things to be I have to show that I I I
can call it when it got to the right
fair value gap and it went to where I
thought it was going to go. That that
that will come. I know that will come.
But that will come as a result of you
doing this. Relax.
Watch price. It reaches to the levels we
understand. We are looking for it to
gravitate. How did you feel as price was
dropping down there? Some of you
watching that are easedropping in in our
conversation here. You've been invited
nonetheless, but you're still ease
dropping.
How did you feel as price was dropping?
Did you think, "Wow, I can't drop any
more than that. Oh, it's probably done.
It's it's probably done now. It's going
to start going up." Did you have any
moments like that? There are wonderful
opportunities to go in and annotate
that's what you thought was happening at
the time and then study what price
actually did. What signatures were there
to indicate that nothing had changed?
Nothing changed.
We went down and stopped with the bodies
here.
We went outside of the new week opening
gap
right into a up close candle.
That right there, that little
retracement and then break down right
there. Soon as we cross over that,
that's that's another indication that
liquidity is being offered to the
downside. That means we're still in a
sell program. That means that sell side
is still the mode of delivery, lower
prices, in other words, and the market
just simply goes right back up to that
one more time. When anybody looking at
this,
maybe if you put an indicator like RSI
or CCI or MACD, any kind of momentum
indicator, I bet you that there is some
measure of bullish divergence with these
lows.
And if you're watching indicators like
that, stochastic, something to that
effect, you get tricked into thinking,
okay, it's done. Look how much it's
moved. So, and you start seeing
divergence and momentum indicators like
that, then, oh, it's it's definitely
done. And I lost so much money doing
that in 1992,
1993,
trading with divergences thinking that
it's it's done because it's diverging. I
mean, it has to follow what the
indicator says, right? And it doesn't.
It doesn't respect it at all. Okay? But
if you start looking for trend following
type two divergences, that means on your
momentum indicator. If you look at the
high here in the high that's made in
your indicator, I'm telling you how to
use retail logic with my stuff behind
it. My stuff makes your retail stuff
work because this is the market. And
it's going to very it's going to sound
very condescending and arrogant. Did you
just hear this guy? Yeah, I said what I
said. Go back. Didn't listen to it. But
the short-term high here and this lower
high here, you're going to see your
momentum indicators are going to have a
higher high reading here versus that
one. And that's a type two trend
following or what is called as a hidden
divergence. And Nick Vanise was the
author and creator and he's the one that
gave it to this trading industry. It was
not George Lane and George Lane didn't
invent stocastics. Okay? So these are
all things that are promoted in books
and because people hear it and they've
read in other books, they think, well,
this is that's the history. This is what
it really was. And you don't know
anything when you have that stuff. And
that's what you're seeing. You're seeing
a wave of smart money concept books
being written by clueless individuals on
Amazon trying to get their little market
history and they're just basically going
to be a [__] stain in the underwear of
trading. They're literally out there
making fools of themselves because when
the real logic is shared, it's going to
be a glaring obvious spotlight placed on
their ignorance. But it's a cash grab.
They got to pay their credit cards off.
They got student debt. I get it. You got
to pay your bills. I got it. But you're
not going to be a pillar in the
industry. You're not going to be a
giant. No one's going to care about your
book because it's going to be toilet
paper and
rushing to do things like that versus
sitting down with a notepad listening to
the old man. Listen to me. My goal is
for you to do well and learn it
correctly. Casper SMC.
Young man, I think you probably put more
ICT content out than anybody else
besides myself and you've recently made
a video like all the trade set ICT trade
setups in 19 minutes.
You're teaching something in your
diagram, the change in the state of
delivery, you have that on the lowest
down close candle. That's wrong. It
needs to be on the highest succession
down close candle. So that's wrong. and
even even in your diagram you can see
prices go right to the opening price of
the second highest down close candle.
That's the change in the state of
delivery. Okay, that's the order block.
So fix that. Re-upload your video or
make a overlay and correct yourself
because that's not right. But I was
going to leave a comment but I thought
that would be rude. But uh this way
everybody can go and watch you and get
some ad revenue off of it but correct it
because it's not right. So the uh
the main takeaway is for the lecture
today is for you to slow down. Observe
price when it's not obvious and your
model's not speaking to you, Caleb.
Don't force anything. Don't try to
reverse it. Don't try to force a setup.
Don't try to chase something else. Don't
reach for another PD array of dad. Well,
I can't find my model today, so I'm
going to I'm going to trade or blocks or
I'm going to trade optimal trade entry
or I'm going to use something else.
Don't do that. That's one of the biggest
things that my paid students made the
mistake of trying to do. They don't have
the wherewithal to stick with the model.
And that means being comfortable with
their model, not giving them a setup
today.
It's not an everyday make money. When
when you're brand new and you don't know
what you're doing, that is not the right
mindset. And and people that tell you
that, they're fools. They're absolute
fools. And if they get lucky to force
something in those environments, what
they have done is they've rewarded bad
thinking. They've rewarded
impulsiveness. And that's exactly what a
gambler feels when he goes to the casino
and he thinks he's lucky and he goes
home without money. He goes home with
regret. But guess what? He's gonna get
comped a free room so he can go back out
there again and give them more money.
And he's going to take that as as an
indication that the universe is telling
me I'm lucky. Look at this. They gave me
a really good comp. And I even got a
show ticket, too. I got to fly out there
again.
Not realizing that they haven't made any
changes that's going to make them better
at gambling. They just think that
everything's going to work out for them.
And that's exactly what people do when
they're watching price action. They zone
out like a deer in headlights and they
think, "Well, you know, my model's not
here, so what else do I do?"
you sit still and you log how difficult
it was for you to sit still and at the
end of the day you didn't lose money.
That's the win. That's the takeaway.
You're never going to hear
profitable traders that teach emphasize
the importance of that.
You're you're not going to hear it
because it's all about getting into a
move so that way you can high-five each
other. Look at my certificate. I got a
funded account. Look at my payout. High
five. That's what it's about. The
engagement traffic about how I have lots
of people that are making money. I have
lots of people passing funded accounts.
I have lots of people getting payouts. I
have lots of people trading real money
accounts. And that's going on all day
long all the time.
But I'm not cheerleading that.
The folks that come here, while that
might be great for them that they're
making money, there's nothing that they
can do by seeing someone else's success
like that. It might inspire you like,
"Wow, I want to be able to do that,
too." But I'm going to tell you the real
behind the scenes feelings are
there and I want to rush to get to that.
That's what always happens. my students
that have been honest when they see
other people in our groups be successful
and they made money, it's almost like
resentment.
It's resentment. And it's easy to see
why my community, the people that follow
me, are the most abrasive and called
toxic because they're so in a race to
keep up with the ones that are
successful in my community. And when
they can't get there as fast as they
want to, they become very toxic and
critical of everything.
And that stems from not doing what I'm
teaching this week. You have to relax.
My results are not your results. You've
never seen someone outline a $200,000
trade live ever. You've never seen that
before, but you seen it Friday. You saw
that Friday. But there's some people
that say it doesn't work. He called both
sides of the market. No, I did not.
I did not.
But you that are demanding, I need to
know every day. I need to know the right
ones that work only when it makes me
money and I need to know how to use a
stop-loss that's never going to get hit.
If you have that framework right now,
this is the week that you want to spend
the most time in because you have a lot
of character flaws that are going to and
they're normal. Don't get me wrong. I'm
not I'm not trying to beat anybody up
that thinks like this and I'm not trying
to make you feel stupid. It's an
opportunity to recalibrate or to
initially calibrate yourself with the
right mindset because if you go into
trading if you go into trading with
these things in your head that you're
that you're putting so much emphasis on
my model has to be executed every single
day. I have to make money every single
day. I got to be able to see my model
when it presents itself. You might have
a model of choosing and it might not be
this one here that I have for Caleb.
You might see a day where you didn't see
it form and and then it starts running.
Oh, I missed it. You know what that is?
That's progress.
But it isn't going to feel like progress
when you first do it. It's going to feel
like you failed. And you're going to
feel like I don't want anybody to ask me
how I did today. I don't want to go on
social media. I'm not going to talk. I'm
not leaving comments on my favorite
friends because if I stay on the radar,
they're never going to ask me, "How was
your day today?"
And you don't want to have to lie, but
you will forced into a corner. You're
going to say, "Yeah, you know, my model
did this. I did this. My model gave this
many points." Okay? But that's not
trading it. And you know that. And now
what you just did, you just laid down
scar tissue. You inflicted wounds on
yourself. Your ego
and your intellect has now been bruised.
You did something with a transaction
with people that don't care about you.
They don't care about you. If you make
money, they don't care. If you lose
money, they're going to be there to
laugh about it, but after that, they're
done. They're looking for something else
because it's all stimuli.
So, you have to have the right
perspective of what you're doing, why
you're doing it. The outcome is not the
goal.
the process and following that process.
That is the goal because if you do those
things correctly, the results will do
what they're supposed to do. Keep
stacking up in in positive the column.
But if you don't have the right mindset
going in and observing, okay, there's
nothing for me to do right now. So sit
still and be okay and be comfortable
knowing that that's fine. That's that's
realistic for you to feel, well, you
know, I'm looking for something and it
might not present itself today or you
just aren't on your game today. You're
not dialed in and it it runs and it
doesn't do anything to get you in.
That's wonderful. You didn't lose money.
That's that's someone with 32 years of
experience telling you that that's okay.
It's good. It's good for you to not have
lost money doing things that were silly.
But if you've ever traded with real
money, how many times have you done
silly things like that and you knew,
"Wow, I wish I could just go back in
time. I knew it wasn't anything in the
market. I just I just gave into that
impulsiveness. I just want to push the
button." Guess what? Women tend to do
that less. Now, I do have students that
are female that have admitted that
they've done that, but not to the degree
that men do.
I have so many students over the last 20
years that it's almost like the same
person's writing them. They're not. I've
received payments from a lot of them and
they're not the same person.
And their initial stages were very
similar.
I don't even know why I pushed the
button. I was just I sat there. I don't
know if it was being being bored or what
it was. I just felt like something came
over me and I just pushed the button to
get in. And I knew as soon as I pushed
it, I should have never done it. But
then it started working in my favor. I
was like, "Well, what man? Wow. It's
it's really doing something." And then
comes back on them and they lost money.
And then that you're losing money when
you follow your model.
It's it's measured risk. And it's
something that you should be comfortable
with if you lose. If you're not ready to
accept that, and I'm going to repeat it
again because it probably went right
over your head.
If you're not ready
to follow a model, trust that this is
the framework in which you're going to
engage price, place a stop-loss, a real
stop-loss,
not a two handle stop-loss, something
that's reasonable that based on the the
structure in the marketplace you're in
engaging with, it's reasonable for it to
fluctuate around, but if it goes to that
stop, you're definitely wrong. That's
why most people don't want to use a stop
loss because what are they doing?
They're defining a moment in price where
they're wrong.
And that just cut real deep right now,
didn't it? You're uncomfortable. You
want to turn the video off. You want to
stop watching the stream right now
because I just pushed you into a corner
like a bully and said, "Give me your
[__] lunch money."
But you got to recognize that. You got
to say, "You know what?
That's true. So, that's an opportunity.
How can I correct that? Well, I'm glad
you asked.
You have to learn how to read price
action and know what your model is
suggesting is likely to occur in price.
And you cannot figure that out by
watching my videos. You're just getting
familiar with it. But you have to watch
price action. You have to study it. You
have to back test it. You have to log it
and get comfortable seeing it many,
many, many times. I take losing trades,
folks. It's it's it's going to happen to
you, too. But I don't go into a market
and think, man, what if I get stopped
out? All this stuff's going to go out
the window if this trade fails. If this
one stops me out, I might as well just
throw all this stuff away and just start
trading Ballinger bands.
That's never going to happen. But the
point is is when you're when you're
forced to come to the root decision
making catalysts
of using a stop-loss, a trader without a
model, without experience
that should not be trading with real
money yet to implement and use a
stop-loss, which is what you always
should do. You should never be trading
without a stop-loss ever. I don't care
what anybody tells you. You're an idiot
if you're trading without a stop-loss.
You're literally saying, "I don't care
how much it wants to hurt me. I'm here
for it."
That's what you're saying. And that's
not somebody that's managing risk,
right? And that to me is crazy.
But if you're saying to yourself, I'm
going to implement a stop-loss on my
trade using the model that I'm trying to
engage price with. I'm placing my stop
at this price level, whatever it is.
When you do that, you're essentially
saying, I am wrong if it goes here, and
I'm okay with being wrong, and I'm okay
paying for this experience. I'm going to
college in this trade. I'm going to uh a
seminar that I had to pay a fee for,
listening to a professional. Okay,
you're using the same logic there. It's
costing you something.
But that stop-loss is doing a whole lot
more, isn't it? It's defining the very
moment that you, as a man or woman, a
trader in the pursuit of success, that
you're wrong.
And some of you think that you're going
to be the person that never does it
wrong.
So, how do you avoid it? Don't use a
stop-loss. I'm never wrong then.
But you're always blowing out. You're
always failing your challenges and
you're always losing your funded
account. That's what keeps happening
because you don't want to lose use a
stop-loss. You don't want to admit that
you're wrong about that trade idea and
you don't want to use a leverage that is
reasonable that if you do get stopped
out, yeah, you're wrong on that trade
and it didn't take more from you. So,
you can still take another one that
could yield easily three to four, ten
times what you just took as a stop-loss.
But you're not thinking that way
initially. You're thinking, I'm going to
make money. I want to get a payout. I
want to pass a fun account challenge. I
want to show everybody my S certificate.
I want to get handshakes from everybody
and out of boys and out of girls on
social media. That's what you're trading
for versus I want to protect my equity.
I want to be in this longer than just
today or next week or this month or this
summer or this year.
And my goals are I want to be able to
replace my income. I want to be able to
pay my car note every month on this. I
want to be able to pay grocery bill,
not I want somebody else to tell me I'm
I'm doing good because doing things in
trading for those types of results,
you're going to break rules. You're not
going to follow your model. You're going
to overlever because you're trying to
impress. And I don't want you thinking
like that, Caleb. That's why your rules
are you can only trade with one
contract. That's why you're going to be
trading with a micro contract first
because you're not trying to impress me
with how much you're making. I got
plenty of money. You know that. I ain't
impressed by money. I'm impressed by
skill set, following rules, and being
responsible and honest with what you're
trying to do. So, when you get stopped
out, when you start trading, I'm not
going to ever look at you and say, "What
a failure." I'm going to be thankful
that you use the stop-loss. I'm going to
be thankful that you at that moment
decided that you are wrong and you're
comfortable in your own skin at that
moment should you be stopped out. And it
doesn't take enough to hurt you. It
doesn't change your trust in the model.
It doesn't take enough from the account
that you can't take another trade.
You see what I'm forming for you, son?
I'm giving you a shield first because if
you have a really good shield and you
can stand on your own two feet, the
market can slap you around a lot.
And you can take a lot of those shots
and you're still there. You haven't got
your sword and spear yet. You haven't
got that stage yet. Okay? You're just
learning how to stay on your two feet
and hold that [__] sword later on to
stab it in its heart. Right now, you
just have to hold on to that shield and
keep yourself in the game. By doing it
that way, you're learning more about
your footing. You're learning about how
you have to navigate and parry when the
market does things you didn't expect.
You're still in it. It doesn't change
and wreck your whole perspective on I'm
never going to get it. And that's what
happens with everybody. Everybody feels
that initially.
No one has ever walked out there and had
straight success and they never doubted
whether they're going to be able to do
this consistently. No one's not ever had
that
moment of doubt.
And the more you involve yourself
initially with trying to chase the
money, the sooner that moment's going to
come. And you don't have enough
experience to say, "That's not realistic
for me to think that way."
But while you're at work, when you're
with your girlfriend and your boyfriend,
when you're eating, you're going to be
disgusted because you're thinking that
way. And that's going to consume that
private time that you're away from the
market. You're going to be obsessively
thinking about the market. And what are
you going to be obsessively thinking
about? how good you've been trading. No,
you're going to think about the things
that you are doing wrong and you're
laying down more scar tissue and it's
going to make it harder for you to learn
how to do this thinking that way.
Once you have scar tissue, that's toxic
thinking. That means you're fearful of
the outcome of the trade. You're fearful
of the model working for you and you
want to stop using that model and it's
going to be easier for you. It's going
to be painless for you to to say, I'm
not using this one. It doesn't work for
me. I want to use something else. Or
you'll take a leap and completely say, I
don't want to use any of this logic.
Give me an indicator. And you're hiding
from the root cause that you are not
doing what you're supposed to be doing.
You're not sticking to a process. You
haven't for you haven't formed a model
that you can stay with to see the
results are there. I literally could
flip a coin. Flip a coin. Heads I'll
buy, tails, I'll sell. the first return
to the opening range gap. And if I'm not
risking but one quarter of 1% by the end
of the year, that's profitable. That's a
challenge for someone to run the numbers
on. Use your system tester to do that.
Rewind it. Listen to the logic. It's
simple. Use the other end of the opening
range as your stop loss. At the end of
the year, you're making money. I just
gave you something that's completely
mechanical. Literally completely
command. It doesn't even have a bias.
It's simple,
but that's demanding too much of you.
Just like staying on the right side of
the road is too demanding for most
people. Just like the sign that says
don't go faster than the speed limit.
They're not suggestions. That's the law.
But I break the law a lot. I want to see
how fast I can get above that speed
limit from a red light. If I have nobody
in front of me and it's open road, my
cars sometimes get asked to do things
that they legally are not allowed to do.
But I'm not doing that on 95 trying to
be speed racer and risk everybody's
lives in my own personal property.
I know that that stop loss might get
hit. I manage a risk there. But I'm on a
back road and it's a straight shot. It's
all farmland. Worst thing can happen is
a deer jumps in front of me and that
would suck.
So everything has to be measured in risk
and you're gravitating towards
understanding how to define that risk,
but you're doing it in a way where
you're not focusing on the results of
monetary wins or losses. That's not the
that's not the report card. We're not
even there yet. We're not there yet for
you.
And seeing a move that oh, I could have
made. No, don't. If you say, "I could
have," you just replace it. Well, I
don't need to do that right now. I
didn't need to do it right now. That's
how you replace that logic. And it's it
it's a a way of replacing and
recalibrating your mindset about the
outcomes. You're rushing
to get to a a I am profitable and I'm
going to be up will go out and make more
money today in the afternoon. I'll go
out there and do it tomorrow because I
have a model. Until you get good at
trusting the model and identifying it,
that's that part's never going to be
there.
And people don't put themselves through
the proper time required to get to that
mindset. And that's why they system hop.
That's why I system hop as a young man.
I have no shame in the game telling you
that's exactly what was going on in my
mind because I wanted immediate results.
I wanted immediate feedback that it
works all the time.
All the time. I wanted everything to be
perfect and easy and fast for me. And
that's why I talk to all of you that are
listening in that m mindset and that
delivery of criticism because I went
through the same thing. I'm not trying
to talk down to you like I didn't go
through it. I went through the same
stuff. I didn't have somebody trying to
kick me in the rear end and say this is
wrong. I had to lose a lot of money many
times to learn the lessons that I'm
doing this wrong because I kept
repeating the same stuff expecting a
different result.
And some of you simply want to go
through the same things I went through
because it's like a like we're sitting
around like remember I've used this
before. I love the movie Jaws, the
original one, and uh Roy Schneider and
uh the two other guys are sitting on and
they start comparing their scars, how
they got hurt, and like, "Oh, yeah, look
at this." That's typical of men. That's
that's a classic man thing.
Try to one up the next guy. Oh, you did
that. Well, look at mine. I got some or
you know the guy, you're the guy or you
have a friend that's always done
something bigger, faster, better. That's
a man characteristic. You don't see that
in women. That's why they're better
traders. That's why they're better
traders. They focus on what they got to
do. What do I got to do? How do I do it
and leave everything else extra out of
it. And when they get there, they're not
parading it around with peacock.
Peacocks, it's a male thing. I I'm I'm
I'm open. I tell you, that's what I do.
I go over to my wife say, "Look what I
did. You know who you're married to,
woman? Look at this. You got You get all
this. All this is yours, girl."
High five. That's right.
But you want to go through it sometimes.
Most of you men, you want to go through
that same process. Yeah, I came through
a battlefield. ICT was just like you,
brother. Yeah, I went through the same
stuff. Why?
When I talk like this and I teach this
way, it's the intended purpose for you
to avoid it.
you become be better by not going
through those things.
I can recognize that some of you will be
smarter than I am and say, "You know
what? This man was honest enough to say
where his shortcomings are, what he
focused on too much early on that caused
him to make this learning curve longer,
taking more time than it's necessary,
trying to do stupid things instead of
just saying these are the these are
rules, these are the model parameters I
got to operate in. this is the time it's
going to be there or it's not going to
be there. If it's not going to be there,
guess what? I didn't lose any money and
I've gained more experience. I've
bolstered the confidence in myself that
I didn't recklessly plunge ahead without
doing a model. I didn't go in
impulsively and just chase price action.
And I didn't execute and pay commissions
on a losing trade on top of it. That's
all winning.
That's winning
because costs of trading, if you're
reckless and you just go nuts, you can
have trades that mathematically look
profitable, but because you've
overleveraged and trade so much, the
commission costs and fees eat it all up.
And there's so many people that don't
realize that
until they start doing it.
Yeah, man. My trades add up to $1,000
today. I made $1,000. Yeah. What'd you
pay in commission? Well, you know, I had
to pay $1,200 in commission because I
traded a lot. But that's all right. I
made $1,000. No, you didn't. No, you
didn't. You spent $1,200 and now you
have less money in your account. That's
not a winning day.
When's the last time your mentor told
you that?
That's the reality of trading. without a
model, without rules,
commission costs and fees are like
piranha.
They're just waiting for you to get into
the marketplace because they're getting
those commission costs and fees whether
you make money or not. So, you have to
only engage when it's more likely that
you're going to see your model paying
out.
Watch the buy side here. Note that one.
Okay. Um just for the PM session. So,
even if it wants to go lower, I'd like
to see it trade up there, bump that, cuz
that would be where anybody short would
have trail their stop loss.
But, um, I I' I've went over today a
little bit more than I wanted to. I I
wanted to try to keep it at like 10:30.
But, these lectures are meant to
calibrate your mindset, Caleb, to to
remind you what you're doing, to avoid
chasing things that are not important
right now. That's the main takeaway is
because if you go in
thinking
unlike the things I'm trying to shape
your mindset around focusing on the
important things and filtering out all
the other stuff, it's going to be harder
for you to learn this and also to be
comfortable in your own skin. If you
don't want to listen to these lectures,
I promise the outcome is going to be
this. And I mean this entirely. It won't
be for Caleb because I'm going to put
him through the woodshed. He's going to
have to do this and this is the way it
is. But for all of you listening, the
outcome is going to be this doesn't
work. There's too many moving parts.
I don't like it. It doesn't work because
it doesn't give me enough trades.
If you have one good trade a week, you
have more than 99% of retail traders
because they have no idea what they're
doing, but they're taking lots of
trades. So having more of a a frequency
of trade is not a that's not a plus for
anyone that doesn't know how to trade
unless you know how to do something
really really well that you can wait all
week for
all week.
One of the exercises I forced myself is
I had to take a timebased trade on a
Friday in a PM session. That means I was
not allowing myself to take any setups
while I watched price.
Lots of opportunities and it was
agonizing for me.
I wanted to push the button on
everything.
But to teach myself patience and
self-control, which I needed a lot of in
the beginning. I didn't have that. I was
like a cowboy literally just gunslinging
everything. Byebye. Bye. Bye bye. If if
Kramer would have been around then, I
would have been broke faster.
But
Kramer is a guy on CNBC. It's he's a
perfect indicator. When he says
something's going up, it's going down.
And you know, just look at his data.
It's crazy. But I had to force myself to
don't trade until the afternoon session.
That means 2 o'clock to 4:00 on that
Friday. I that was the only time I could
take a trade.
And every single day it was like my skin
was crawling. I was going through
withdrawal like man like I I I don't
know if I can do this. And so many times
I would have my platform opened up
thinking okay I'm going to call the
broker and I'm going to put this trade
on.
I'm watching Meta Stop. That was my pl
that was my that was my Trading View
chart program Meta Stop. And I had Super
Charts. I had trade station
and it was very very hard for me to sit
still and to be honest with you
sometimes I gave in and guess what
happened?
I would lose
and that loss was multiplied
so many times over because I did not
listen to the rules. I crossed the
yellow line. I went over the speed limit
and I drive. I drove under the influence
of greed.
So, should I be surprised that I
wrecked? I shouldn't be, but I was at
the time. Like, how' this happen?
How could this happen to me? I didn't
deserve that. Yes, you did, Michael.
You didn't follow the rules. You
impulsively traded.
You were supposed to wait until Friday,
the afternoon session between 2 o'clock
and four o'clock because you're not
controlling yourself. You don't have
self-control and you're trading
impulsively.
So, I had to force myself with these
things. Maybe it's not that extreme for
you. Maybe you you you're thinking that
you're exempt from that.
Okay. Well, what are you going to do to
overcome that impulsive nature?
It's only fixed by doing less
and growing comfortable with less. And I
found that I could do one trade in the
bond market.
And that one trade in the bond market
could yield me more than my whole
monthly income.
And I'm like, wow, this is
a whole lot less than I thought it was
going to require.
And that was an astonishing moment for
me. It was an epiphany where I thought
you had to trade every single day
because the markets are trading. I I got
to find a trade.
And I realized that less is more.
Less is less to worry about.
If you have four trades a month, your
commissions are going to be the lowest
it can be. I mean, think about it. Your
commission costs are going to be you
extremely light.
And if you're profitable,
wow, your your net profitability is
through the through the roof.
But no one's telling you that as
educators. No one's telling you that.
They're telling you go, go, go, baby.
And all these funding account companies,
they love it because that's more
commission costs or fees that they're
collecting and more likely you're going
to blow the account and then start up
all over again. And I'm telling you,
Caleb, you're not feeding them that.
You're not fattening their wallets.
You're going in just enough to take what
you need. That's it. They'll make a
little bit of money off of you. That's
that's a given. But you're only in there
to make a couple grand. Once you get to
$5,000, that $5,000 is going to come out
of there and you will never open up
another transaction with that funded
account company ever again. And that
$5,000 is going to go into AMP Global.
And AMP Global, you're going to trade a
micro contract. And you're going to
build that up slowly until you can get
to one standard lot.
How are you going to know when you can
trade one standard lot? When you're
trading with one and a half times the
full exchange margin.
Man, that's going to take I don't care
what anybody else says about how long
it's going to take. You're in this to
have a career. you're going to get bored
with doing this. So that way when you
are trading with the standard lot,
you're going to be making more than
everybody else out there that's going to
criticize if you give them a stage for
it. They're going to be working their
jobs when you're making doctor salaries
in a month. They're going to be
regretting not doing the things that
you're going through
when you're making more money than they
ever imagined.
they'll still be where they're at. Toxic
thinking,
being critical of other people when you
have done the work. And when you take
trades, you're not going to be anxious.
You're not going to be worried about if
you get stopped out because the leverage
that you're using is the minimum.
And the the risk you you're placing on
the trade cannot take your account from
you. And when you have one winning trade
for the day, you're done.
If you have a losing trade, you're done.
There's no question. There's no
conversation. There's no doubts about
it. This is the way it is.
And you will make millions of dollars as
a result of that.
It just takes the time element that
nobody else wants to put themselves
through.
They don't want to go through this
process of forging ahead with the right
mindset and slow and steady giving
yourself a chance to understand yourself
and how you're going to derail yourself
because it's my rules that you're
following.
Those rules will keep you from
derailing. You cannot blow that account.
Trading like that, you cannot absolutely
cannot blow the account.
It's not it's not possible.
But invite more than one trade a day and
invoid and invite trading with a
standard lot versus a micro before
you're able to really afford it. Because
with Ant Global, you can trade a
standard lot with 300 bucks
and that is reckless.
So many people have gone into very very
low commission brokers.
I'm gonna be honest with you. You know,
I've I've I've let the live account be
pushed with the expectations of my
children to show them the results of
money going up, money going down. And
they've watched that.
And to see them smile and think, "Wow."
When it was real money in profit, and
then watching their face when, yeah,
that was a real $8,000 loss. And they're
like, " $8,000? Wow." Yeah. It's
sobering, isn't it?
But see, when you go in, you're thinking
that it's always going to be perfect,
and you're shielding yourself and
putting blinders on, thinking it's not
going to be
that way for you. You're going to do it
differently, and you'll be able to walk
through, and they'll just just be easy.
You're lying to yourself and you're
filling yourself up with expectations
that can't be met.
So, you're making trader trading harder
than it needs to be. You're making
learning how to trade harder than it
needs to be.
versus finding comfort and fun in
reading price action. If you make that
your first stage and bloom there,
everything you do in profitable trading
that's consistently profitable is going
to stem from you doing this part right.
But nobody wants to spend the time here
doing this.
They'll go to the golf range, pay the
fees to be on a golf course and hit
balls out there like they're going to be
the next Tiger Woods, knowing full well
they're not going to be on any PGA
tournaments. They're not going to be on
TV. But they're going to be out there,
damn it, every weekend. When the
weather's good, I got to be out there on
the green.
That's not going to make them any money.
They're going to put all the emphasis on
getting out there in the woods to get
that deer when they got food in the
refrigerator. I got to go out there with
the boys. It's got to happen. The fish
are biting, hunting. I got to get up
early tomorrow. I don't know what time
I'm coming home, but me and Rick, we're
out there. We're going on the boat.
Whatever.
You'll pour your time and effort and
energy and all these other things. And
you'll spend your money chasing women in
the club on Fridays and Saturday night
and on Monday regretting it and having
nothing to show for it. And then but
you'll do the same thing. Work all week
to do that same thing on the weekend.
Raise up your another week of girl
money. And women, I'm not trying to be
mean to you, but that's just what men
do. And some of you women are smart.
They want to drink for free. You know
how to work that system. You ain't going
home with nobody, but you're drinking
for free. And men simply just don't see
it. They can be roped easily. And that's
why you suck as traders
because you want to throw your money
away. And these markets are a cruel
lover. It'll shake its ass at you, bat
its eyelashes at you, and say, "Come on,
honey. You got a chance." But you're
going home alone broke.
She had a great time. She had a great
time.
You paid for a wonderful experience for
her to take it from you.
And that's why you suck as a trader
because you think that way. in instead
of saying I want to know
where I'm likely to make bad choices
and I need to fortify those areas. I
don't want to get drunk. That's why I
don't drink alcohol because if I get
drunk, I'm already an impulsive
creature. I swing from one spectrum to
the next. Very rarely am I in the
middle. So if I intoxicate myself or if
I take drugs,
I would be one extreme or the other. And
I've never been in an environment where
like that. I don't want to give myself
that opportunity.
So if I know that that would take me out
of my mental faculties, I won't be able
to make decisions. Well, I avoid that. I
I have abstained from those things all
my life.
Trading you have to think about the same
way. This is what like the best part of
Alexander's uh book Alexander Elder
Trading for a Living is the first half
where it has nothing to do with charts.
That's where that book really shines
because of it talks about persons that
have alcohol addiction and I grew up in
an alcohol addicted h household. My
family members were all drunks
or druggies.
And my father, who is about to come out
in the real world after 40 plus years in
prison as a contract murderer,
Michael Joe Harington,
155634, that's his inmate number. We're
the cut. The cut is the Jessup House of
Corrections. Okay. He's been parrolled
and we're waiting for him to be
released. Um,
he picked up a drug addiction over in
Vietnam, got addicted to heroin, came
home and the only way he could meet that
expense was to do things illegally and
got wrapped up in the wrong people and
started doing things he shouldn't have
done and ended people's lives for money.
I'm not bragging about that. He deserved
to be where he was. He deserved that.
And
I know that book Alexander wrote, it
resonated with me. I could see how if
I'm not careful,
while I was a teenager, I kept myself
from drugs. I kept myself from alcohol.
And I did not allow myself to have my my
mind clouded by that stuff. And when I
read that book, it really resonated with
me because I was like, "Wow."
I'm glad I'm choosing to do this young
because
maybe later in life, I could have had a
midlife crisis and became an alcoholic
or a drug addict because I wasn't
successful in life and I I I made bad
choices and then there it is. I go into
a tail spin. But that book really it
helped me focus on the most important
factors. It's it's how we think. What
causes this impulsive nature. If you've
never read the book, if you don't have
the book, go buy it. I don't have an
affiliate link on Amazon. I'm not going
to make any money off of it. Alexander
Elder is not going to give me a kickback
for you buying his book. But the first
half of that book, honestly,
that's the real problems why people
can't make money. It's not that they
don't have a good system for technical
stuff. The technical stuff is absolutely
completely not important at all. I can
trade without a chart. I don't need a
chart. But
the things that we think about
the catalyst for why we make decisions
and then when you put a cause and effect
for making or losing money behind these
impulses if you've never identified what
they are in yourself and we all have it
folks. Nobody walks around with clean
laundry. Okay? Everybody has a dirty
shirt somehow.
Somebody has two day old underwear.
Okay? Something about us isn't right as
a trader. And that small little, you
know, rock in in your shoe is going to
cause you to walk differently.
You won't be able to do as much as you
could unless you fixed it first.
And by watching price action and
studying how you internalize everything
that that market's doing, for men, it's
a gladiator type thing. I'm going to
battle. It's an MMA fight, you know. I'm
I'm slaying a dragon. I'm Rambo going in
and vanquishing all the enemies behind
enemy lines with three bullets in my
gun. I'm going to kill everybody with,
you know, with the the least
setting themselves up for failure, not
realizing it. Placing so much emphasis
on the cheerleaded after the fact moment
that is likely never to come.
And women don't think that way. They
think I have to nest. I have to get my
resources together and I'm I have to
make sure that everything is how it
needs to be.
That's process and protocoloriented.
Men are I'm swinging my sword. I'm
emptying my clip. I'm literally going to
go out there and remove the head of
everything in front of me. I'm going to
get the touchdown. I'm going to be the
Super Bowl winner. I'm going to be the
World Series winner.
That's how men think. And that that
thought process
is the very thing that holds men back as
traders and allows women to excel.
Think about it. If you're a woman, it
makes a whole lot more sense. Now, even
if you aren't profitable yet, you know
that you are doing things that are
processoriented,
principle oriented, organized.
Everything you're doing is organized,
not impulsive. Men, watch them. We are
creatures of impulse.
But when it comes time to defend the
family and the home, that's what we
shine on. That's what we're designed to
do. We are absolutely the right thing
for that. That's why we were designed to
be bigger, stronger, faster.
But intellectually
sometimes we miss the mark. And that is
exasperated and highlighted with a
bright spotlight in trading. And if
you're weak-minded, little dick energy,
you look at this and say, "Oh, I can't
listen to this guy." Or you take as a
personal insult instead of saying, "You
know what? This makes a whole lot of
sense and I am holding myself back
because I think this way." I had to do
the same stuff. Folks, it was hard for
me as a young man who thought he figured
out a lot of stuff and how everything
works and everybody is going to be
impressed. Nobody was impressed. And it
didn't matter how much money I made.
They were not impressed.
They didn't worry about learning what I
was doing. They wanted to be around me
and let me spend money on them.
So, while I was not going to bars and
giving the girls my money
through alcohol,
they were getting things from me and my
personal back then friends that are not
my friends now. They were just mooching
off me. So, I lied to myself and said,
"Yeah, they respect me because they want
to hang around with me." No, they wanted
the gifts that I was giving them for
hanging out and I was spending the money
because it made me feel like a big shot.
So, who's smarter there? It wasn't me.
It wasn't me. It was them. They were the
market then. They were taking from me.
And I was lying to myself saying, "I'm
happy. I'm happy doing this." When
eventually it got to the point where,
you know, this is dumb.
What are they really bringing to me?
What are they making? What deposits are
they making into my life because I don't
even feel good when I'm spending money
on them anymore?
And that's what you have to do. You have
to take inventory while you're watching
price action and discovering what makes
you tick, what makes you fearful, what
makes you feel like you have all the
things figured out. And then when it
doesn't work out like that, what were
those catalysts? Because that's your
problem areas, the things that make you
impulsive. Do you get angry real quick?
Do you feel scared out of no out of
nowhere for no reason, have anxiety
attacks? You're watching price action
and you're like, "Oh man, I'm having
heart palpitations." And you don't even
know why it just happened. I'm telling
you how it happened. In the last 30
seconds, you just thought of something
and you don't have an answer for it and
it scared you and you're trying to throw
it away like it didn't happen, but it's
telling you with your body symptoms that
you absolutely have something that you
need to resolve.
And if you're in the market trading,
chances are you have more leverage on
than you should. Or you just took a
trade impulsively and you don't know
what you're doing and you're just like
the person at the casino that laid down
their chips on a hand that they don't
know is going to win or not. Or they
just put in money and hit maximum bet on
the slot machine and pulled the handle
down and you know that that's either
going to be the last one you did or
you're going to get lucky and your
heart's palpitating.
People put themselves through that every
single day. And if you feed yourself
that as a steady diet, not knowing what
you're doing, overleveraging,
overtrading, eventually
eventually
your body is going to stop working
properly and you will have a heart
attack. You will have a stroke. The
things that you think you're about to
feel and have, I have many times like
that in my years. I just went through
vertigo for the first time. And that
that vertigo attack made me feel like I
was having a stroke. I thought I was
dying.
And for weeks after that, I was
expecting a heart attack, a stroke, but
it was just anxiety around not knowing
what I had experienced and then later
found out it was it's vertigo.
So now my blood pressure is fine. But
when I'm in a constant state of oh, it's
going to happen again. I'm I'm you know
it's a mess. Like it was messing up my
blood sugar. It was messing up my u
blood pressure. Like I had wild high
blood blood pressure, dizzy spells. And
then finally when I was shown that it
was just vertigo. It's a small little
calcium deposit that went into my inner
ear and tricked my brain thinking that I
was spinning when I really wasn't. It's
a terrible thing. But there are
exercises you can do to mitigate that.
And it can come back. My mother's had it
one time in her life and never had it
again. I've had one episode with it. I
hope and pray in Jesus name I never have
another one of them. But if I do have
it, I know it's not a stroke. I know
it's not a heart attack. But when you
have it for the first time, it's
terrifying.
When you're in a trade and you're
overleveraged, Caleb, you will feel like
that. You'll feel like the weight of the
world's crushing down on you and you're
literally standing still but wishing you
could run away.
If someone tries to talk to you, even if
they're the sweetest tone and
well-intended purposes and trying to
console you, you will think they're
cussing you out and calling you the
worst possible names and spitting in
your face. Get away from me
because it's just one more thing that's
causing more stimuli in your brain
because you're overloaded.
You have taken on too much risk and
you've done something impulsively. You
know what you should be doing, which is
get out of the trade. That's the
corrective measure to stop it. You have
to feel comfortable stopping a a
transaction even if it's a losing trade.
I have traded as a 20-year-old in panic
driving a truck and drove recklessly
and took risks and hit signs on the road
because I was rushing to get to a pay
phone, sliding on ice, nearly tearing
off the passenger side mirror of my
employer's truck because I wanted to
hurry up and get out of a trade that I
just couldn't hold on to anymore in
soybeans. I was losing my ass and I was
hoping and hoping and hoping all day
that it was going to turn around and I
had literally seven or six minutes left
until I can get out of the trade.
I tore the mirror almost completely off
the truck, rushing, turning into a road
that didn't even look to see if there's
a car coming. I could have end up
hitting someone. And the only thing I
cared about was getting out of that
painful feeling of I'm not in control.
And I ran into a company called Kelco on
Baltimore Street. I'm not sure if it's
even there anymore. I hated going to
that stop, but I went there on a day I'm
not even supposed to service it, but
that was the first place I could go to
that had a phone that I didn't have to
put a quarter into it. I just want to
run to it, grab it, pick it up, and dial
the number. And I got out of the trade.
And soon as I got out of the trade, even
though the mirror was tore off and I had
to go and tell my boss, I I messed that
up. I hadn't had any accidents prior to
that.
You would think I'd be scared that I was
going to lose my job. Oh, I got to
because I got out of the trade.
In 10 minutes of driving, my breathing
was regulated. Panic was gone. Yes, I
took a loss. Yes, my mirrors tore up.
And yes, I'm probably gonna get in
trouble when I go back to talk to my
boss and tell them what I did. But I was
able to take it.
My mind wasn't clouded. I wasn't in a
state of disorientation, which is what
you're going to feel in these markets if
you let yourself trade like this, not
knowing what you're doing without a
model, overleveraging, overtrading.
You're you're you're you're placing too
much on your system,
expecting a lottery result to come and
and save you.
And people that don't have a model or
know how to trade, they repeat this over
and over and over again. And
there's people that are pretending to be
mentors and they have no idea what
they're doing. They have no They don't
even touch on these topics.
Panic, anxiety. I lived with it for
years,
years with it.
And the first thing you have to control
is how you think.
And you won't know how you're going to
derail yourself until you go through the
exercises of watching price, recording
what you feel, how you feel. Do you feel
elated? Do you feel invincible? When do
those things manifest themselves when
you're watching price? What does it look
like in the chart? Because it's going to
happen again. And it's going to happen
sometimes for you that are impatient
when you're in a trade with real money
and you're going to feel invincible and
then all of a sudden the rug gets pulled
out from underneath you. the market does
what it's really going to do. And you're
not looking for those things. You're
looking for further evidence that you're
perfect. You're you're looking for
further evidence that you can't wait to
go show everybody on social media how
much money you just made. But you're not
going to talk about how you had heart
palpitations. You nearly pissed
yourself. You feel like you're going to
[__] your pants. You feel like you're
going to pass out, die. You're not going
to share those results. It was you had
no problem doing it. It's just an
everyday thing for you. And that in
itself is problematic because you're
lying to yourself if you do those things
and you're making your progress harder
because you're saying that it's easy for
you right now when you're struggling to
go through it. Young men, listen, it is
not shameful for you to say, "I am
really struggling right now to get this
under my uh grasp. I'm I'm a wreck
emotionally and psychologically when I'm
studying this stuff and I'm taking
trades. I know I shouldn't do it, but I
can't stop myself." You're the same
thing as a gambler going to a casino.
You're the same thing as that young man
that takes all of his money that's
worked all week and sees the pretty girl
at the end of the bar or across the club
and says, "You know what? I'm going to
spend everything in my pocket with the
expectation that I'm going to get that
take profit of going home with her." And
she's just going to run your stop. She's
going to margin call you. But you're
going to do it the same way next week
with a different girl.
When when is the end? When are you going
to stop doing those things?
Think about it.
What what is going to be the catalyst
that says I'm not going to do those
things? Because in the marketplace,
blowing the account and not having any
more money to refund it. Guess what?
That's the outcome that's coming. It's
going to happen. It will absolutely
happen to you.
So you have to know what are these
things that's going to trigger that so
that way you can recognize them and say
I'm not going to recklessly plunge
ahead. I'm not going to meet a
uncomfortable draw down of a losing
trade today. I'm not going to feed that
with more losses.
Yes, it's not fun going home with a
losing trade. But you know what's worse?
blowing the account,
making a small less than 1% loss turn
into 10% draw down or maximum draw down
for the day and you can't trade your
account.
That sucks. That's recklessness.
And not enough is said about these types
of things. And the closest I've ever
heard Mark Douglas is doesn't he doesn't
even come close. He doesn't even come
close. Not to be disrespectful, the book
is essential. Everybody should have it
in their library. They should read it.
But it still doesn't pair
with the the the logic of
knowing what you're doing is wrong and
someone telling you how to fix it and
you ignoring it.
You may have read Mark Douglas's book,
but are you implementing it? Hey, I read
it, man. I'm an OG just like everybody
else. I read that book. And but how are
you trading? You're not using anything
from that book. You're doing everything
that he says that is going to be a
problem.
Think about it.
You know what you're doing many times is
not what you should be doing. And you
you shun that conscious in you. That
little inside voice that's yours. It's
your conscience saying, "I I shouldn't I
shouldn't press the button." And you
think, "Oh, wait a minute." And then
something comes over top of you and you
press it because you just can't sit
comfortably in a in a position of
self-control.
So you let yourself do what your
impulsive nature wants to do and then
you lose money. And it doesn't happen
quick. It's going to be a long drawn out
process, a painful lesson that should be
used as a a means of saying, you know
what, I don't want to do this again. But
that's not enough. That's not enough,
young man. You have to have more of it
to see that there's a problem here that
you need to identify. What is it you're
doing?
Are you angry because something just
happened and you want to have a
feel-good moment? Or are you
impatient and you want to get there
faster, knowing full well that you're
not ready? That's what you have to be
identifying. You have to identify your
impulsive nature,
your recklessness, and impatience. And
what are those catalysts that promote
that decision- making or that thought
process at the time when you're taking
these impulsive decisions and placing
them in the marketplace is that that
part's for the people that are already
trading, not you, Caleb.
But this this is an area that is rich
for people to write books on.
If you have experiences where you've
made money, but you've gone through
painful experiences like that and you
want to write a book, I'm buying your
book. I'm buying that
because that's someone that had to
wrestle demons
that they made relationships with, that
they protected. See, you're protecting
all those bad decision-making catalysts.
You're protecting them instead of
saying, "It's time to go. It's eviction
day. You got to get out of here." What
I'm trying to do, there's no room for
you here. I'm building an enterprise and
there's no positions open for
detractors, derailers,
things that's going to cause me to to to
not find my success and reach my
opportunities and my threshold of
success.
You have to identify them as soon as you
can. And it's scary to do that because
it makes you feel
frail
when fraileness in the beginning is a
strength.
It doesn't feel that way, but it really
is a superpower that you are not going
to let your ego and your pride
mask what is going to be the biggest
barriers for you to succeed.
All you have to do is recognize what
they are and do everything you can to
not feed them.
What's the success rate for guys that go
to the bars and spend all their money?
Are they finding their wife? No. And the
ones that you end up probably marrying
in those conditions, do those marriages
just work out? Probably not.
So,
why would you expect it any different in
the marketplace when you're competing
with the smartest people in the world
that have control over everything and
they're tying strings to you like a
marionette and they are going to make
you dance when they want you to. All
they got to do is make the market run a
little bit and oh, I've been waiting for
this move all morning. Let me get in
there. I know it's probably not the best
time to buy it, but I'm I got to get in
there because I don't want to miss it
and I won't use a stop loss because I
don't know how much it's going to
retrace. Does that sound like someone
that has a sound logic and a model that
makes sense to trade on? No, it doesn't.
But at the time, you're going to
convince yourself it's, you know, it's
it's my model. It's my right now model.
And right now model is the model that
always blows out.
That wasn't your model 20 minutes ago.
It wasn't the model last Friday. It
wasn't what you were starting to trade
with and this is what you settled in on.
It's your right now model. It's your
right now decision process that has
absolutely nothing to do with why you're
trying to trade. It just means that you
feel like you're going to get something
out of the move. You're trying to milk
it.
And many times you're not milking a
female cow. You're milking a bull. And
you know what you get from that.
So you have a lot of work in the early
stages of your development that you have
to force yourself to be honest about.
You have to recognize character flaws
that once you identify them and you
build in coping skills like I had to
learn lots of skills to manage anxiety
and agorophobia. I had fear of being
around other people.
I could not have done what I'm doing
today
when I was 20.
I couldn't have done it.
I was I was so afraid of other people's
view of me because I was trying so hard
to make myself into something to impress
my grandfather.
So I had this deep rooted sense of
wanting to shield myself from criticism
and then eventually it led to a
gorophobia. I didn't want to be around
other people.
I didn't want to be around other people.
They would say, "Hey, how's your trading
going?"
because I blew that account then.
And I didn't want to lie because I
didn't want to lie because it's it's not
easy to manage a lot of lies. Once you
start lying, you got to remember
everything. So, I would avoid all those
things. I would avoid meeting up with
people. If we have family functions, I
was sick. If if we have a cookout, I've
already ate. I'm not going. And I just
stayed away from everybody because I
didn't want the invitation of friends
and family to ask me how I was doing
because I didn't want them to say,
"Haha, we told you."
So, it caused anxiety and that anxiety
exasperated to levels of agorophobia,
which is fear of being around other
people. And your world shrinks down to
what was at that time just my bedroom.
And it started this toxic cycle of
everything about myself. I hated.
Everything that I did was wrong. And I
punished myself and punished myself and
punished myself and I was just in this
small little world that I created for
myself with fear, anxiety, and
depression. And then it grew into an
eating disorder. And I was very, very
well-built as a young man. I was working
out. I had a very amazing up upper body.
I didn't work I was the guy that didn't
do leg day and I ain't got a shame and
tell you I look like a [__] ice cream
cone. But it is what it is. I ain't
going to lie to you. I didn't want to do
my legs. It sucked. So, I wore big baggy
pants, Zubaz pants back then, like Royal
Warriors, the wrestlers, you know, it
was big baggy pants and then muscle TE's
or tight uh t-shirts and showed
everything. And
I went down from 195 pounds, which was
stacked with no juice. I was going to
start taking steroids because I wanted
to be a wrestler.
WWF wrestler. And this agorophobia and
anxiety and eating disorder brought me
all the way down to 150 pounds. And I
might even show a picture of it the next
time we do a live stream. Um, I was
emaciated. I looked a mess. I looked
like a cancer puh patient before chemo.
Like it was bad. And my bones and my
joints hurt because I was malnourished.
And I put myself through that. The
market didn't do that to me. I did. I
did that to myself
and it caused so many problems. I was
developing an ulcer in my stomach. I had
irritable bowel syndrome and colitis a
lot which are all terrible, terrible
feelings of not being able to go to the
bathroom the right way. And because I
was constantly pumping acid in my
stomach through stress and barely eating
anything, I couldn't even drink water
because it was painful.
I was going to the emergency room
severely dehydrated and they had to put
IV bags on me and I had to spend time
there getting rehydrated
and I was doing it all the time and that
wasn't enough to say you better stop
before you kill yourself.
I was trapped in this loop of constantly
feeding the demons, protecting them. I
was protecting them and I needed someone
to say, "Hey,
you need help. You need to stop thinking
like you're thinking and you're doing it
to yourself.
And a lot of my students that have been
upfront and honest and please don't take
this as an invitation to to reach out to
me email because it's barely ever an
opportunity for me for to get back to
some of you that send me emails and you
end up sending me emails months later
saying you're a jerk. You don't ever
answer my emails. Look how many people
follow me. If just 5% of that
ever sends me an email, I would never
get through them. So, it's not that I
don't want to. I just there's so many of
you.
But I want Caleb to understand that
this is a wonderful opportunity for you
to carve out a lifestyle, a life for
yourself. And it need not be millionaire
status. You could just do really really
well making less than six figures but
high 90s and be comfortable not have to
work your job not have to commute two
hours. You know it that sucks
working 12-hour days.
That's replaceable. You don't need to do
months to get that replaced. But you can
also chase unrealistic expectations and
have high lofty goals on yourself and
paint yourself in a situation where
you've told friends and family that
you're going to do this and you're going
to do that and now you just made it
harder for yourself. Which is why I tell
you in those Twitter spaces
last year and in the year before when I
was doing them that love your friends
and family from a distance and keep your
business out of their attention. Don't
tell them what you're doing. Let them
recognize what you're doing because your
lifestyle has changed. Telling people
that you're going to be successful
trading, you're make lots of money, all
you have done now is given them the fuel
and the ammo to shoot you in your face
and tell you, "I told you you weren't
going to be able to do that." Versus, if
you just keep it to yourself, you're not
elevating the risks. You're not making
it more complicated. You're not making
it more emotional. You're not making it
harder for yourself to live up to
expectations that are outside of your
own. And as soon as you invite other
people to give you their opinion, you're
now trying to appease what they think.
And they don't even know what a chart's
telling them, but they're going to have
an opinion about trading.
Nobody makes money in trading. Well,
it's hard for people to make money and
it's when it's like that when you're
complicating it with all these
emotional, psychological barriers that
you're going to place up inside your
mind and it's a normal thing. It's it's
more prevalent than you realize. Most
people are really good at hiding it.
They're they're ashamed of it. They
think they're not a man. They think
they're not
mentally fit
when it's just you keeping yourself in a
very stressful environment and not
identifying the exits. You choose to
stay there. You're in a cell in a
prison, but the cell doors open and you
can leave anytime you want, but you're
you're making your bed there. You're
staying there because you you feel more
comfortable in that pain than the pain
you think is going to happen because
other people will be able to say, "I
told you you couldn't do it." So, you're
going to keep doing all these things,
making decisions on things that are not
rooted in sound logic because you want
to be able to say, "I did it my way."
And that way wasn't even scientifically
laid out as a process. This is what I'm
going to do when I do this. If I have a
losing trade, then I'm going to react
this way. I'm not going to trade. I'm
not going to look at the charts. I'm
going to go back in. And I'm going to
same model tomorrow when I find a setup.
If the setup's there, I'm going to
execute on it. I'm not going to increase
my risk. I'm not going to trade more
contracts. And once I get my win for the
day, I'm done. I'm turning my charts
off. I have to control myself.
You have to think this way and live it.
Stay in a rulebased mindset.
If you do, you're going to have a whole
lot less anxiety. You'll still feel
stress. I mean, stress is normal. Stress
is a a proof that you're living.
Your your heart speeds up a little bit.
Guess what? That's good. You're excited.
That's not fear. You're excited because
you're following your model and you're
doing everything right. See what I just
did there. When I was 20,
oh [__]
I wish this thing would start moving
faster. This it hasn't I haven't
overcome the commission cost yet. My
commission cost back then was $100
for one contract.
Think about that now. You guys are
complaining and saying, "Oh, man.
Commission costs suck." I was paying
$100.
That's what everything cost back then.
It wasn't until Lyn Waldock and uh
other uh brokers that came out and they
had discount brokerage firm uh fees, $35
round.
But even that $35 per contract is still
exorbitant compared to today.
So, you're paying when you're doing a 25
lot trade, you're paying a lot of money
and you're not guaranteed to even
overcome the spread
and the commission.
You want to talk about stress, that's
stressful.
But if you have a process you're
following and you've already identified
what you are going to think in certain
conditions when the market does what you
thought it was going to be, how do you
feel?
Do you feel like you want to go on
social media and parade it around?
You have insecurity issues.
You need to be validated. Well, you're
going to do a whole lot of things in
your trading to seek that versus
following a model that makes money and
controlling risk. You'll be more likely
to take big impulsive trades
overleveraged just to impress
because if soon as you start that
problem, that mistake of taking your
wins and your results that made money
and you show it on the on social media,
you throw it out there in the ether and
you're waiting for the confirmation from
the sky above. You are the chosen one.
You are the one we've all been waiting
for. We're all going to follow in a
single file line behind you and bow down
and worship and kiss your ass. That's
that that's what you really want.
And when they don't do it enough for
you, you're going to have to think,
well, I got to overlever because the
last time I made a $500 win, nobody
really gave two shits about it. So, I
have to now do something to make over
$1,000.
So, what are you going to do? What needs
to change? Your leverage.
In your eyes, that's what you think
needs to change. But I'm telling you
that doesn't need to happen. Because if
you make the same trade tomorrow using
your model and all you make is $475,
you made $475.
That's a win. You close the charts and
you've got more experience and you've
managed yourself. You've controlled that
impulsive nature, that intrusive thought
about, I want to do more so I can
impress other people that you don't
really care about. You just want them to
tell you you're better than you really
are. You want some person to lie to you
with a limited perspective of what
you've given them. They only can see
what you've just shown them, but you've
not been fully transparent and said that
you were terrified while you're taking
that trade. You see, you see where this
is a problem? And then take a step back
and think about everybody you talk to on
social media, how this is actually
happening behind the scenes. You
probably never thought about it. And how
you're doing it, too. And now they're
all thinking the same thing about you.
And you wonder why I'm laughing at all
of you because I did that same stuff.
And you think that this is what you're
supposed to do. And it's not. Women
aren't doing that.
Women are not doing that.
But all of you men are.
All of you are. It's a measuring
competition.
I'm not impressed by showing me one
trade or one broker statement where you
did something where you made a little
bit of money. I'm more impressed when I
see someone that's making it available
to other people when they live stream.
They let it all hang out.
Come hell or high water. It's a good day
or it's a bad day. They're just out
there doing it. That doesn't mean I
agree with their tra trading method.
There isn't anybody out there that's
trading on the live stream that I agree
with any of their methodology.
But I'm impressed with their ability to
put themselves out there in that
fishbowl for other people to watch. And
it's a wonderful opportunity to study
human psychology both in their audience
and how they think about price and how
they worship or troll the results of
these people. But also when they show
their face,
look at their face. Read their face. Are
they able to stare at the chart? How
often are they looking away from the
charts?
That's them hiding. It's called point of
indication in magic. I mentioned this in
Friday. The uh I know I'm going on and
on and on, but I promise I'll say this
and I'm stopping.
In magic, when you do a trick as a
performer,
magicians that are not refined,
they will close their eyes at the moment
a slight of hand is being done because
what they're doing is they're closing
their eyes because they don't want to
see themselves flash. In magic, it's
called like if you have a coin or a card
in your hand, you're trying to make it
appear to the spectator that it's
vanishing. You're actually hiding and
copying it in a certain handheld,
but because they know that they're not
really uh good enough to be doing what
they're doing, they will close their
eyes at the very moment a slight of
hands being done. So when I studied
under Jeff McBride, he's one of the best
today card manipulators and he taught on
this principle and it was it made very
very good sense to me as as someone that
was an educator. I was like, you know
what, that's not just happening in
magic. It happens in everything and it's
a tell.
So, if you
aren't careful,
you're going to ignore these point of
indications in your character
and you'll put band-aids on them. You'll
close your eyes to the things you're
doing wrong, never sharing it with the
public. But the public that can see you
doing them, like for instance, when a
live streamer is in a trade, they didn't
say they bought it or sold it yet, but
all of a sudden, they were talking real
talkative. They get real quiet and
they're not looking at the charts a
They'll look down. They'll bite their
fingernail. They'll look at the car
behind themselves, think they probably
paid too much money for it. How many
people care about that car anymore? Or
they'll look at another chart or they'll
start nodding their head to a song
they're listening to. Or even worse,
listen. Because some of them are
basically eating their microphone.
Their breath will become erratic.
Okay, it's getting real annoying here.
They're indicating to you. That's point
of indication. That's them not
comfortable in the trade, not trusting
the logic. They're just hoping it's
going to pan out for them. You need to
do and I'm not don't take I'm not
trolling anybody by doing this. I'm
telling you that's why I appreciate and
I have a great deal of respect for
everyone that live streams, especially
the ones that show their face because
they're literally laying themselves out
there to be analyzed.
seriously analyzed with psychology and
humanistic characteristics that are
going to manifest themselves in what
they're doing.
You need to do the same thing while
you're learning how to read Christ
action because you don't understand the
the magnitude and the depth and the
impact that these things that you're
trying to mask and hide in yourself.
If you don't recognize what those things
are, those being, what makes you feel
overconfident?
What triggers that?
What made you feel so overconfident that
you're now going to trade maximum
leverage?
What was it? I guarantee you, it's
something you're trying to get as a
result that is external to trading and
external to the market you're trying to
trade. You're trying to cope and
compensate for something. Someone made
you mad. Someone hurt your feelings.
you're in a relationship that maybe
you're arguing with them and you feel
like, you know what, I gotta be I gotta
make myself a lot of money today because
that way I know I don't have to be
codependent with them.
That sometimes ladies, you you're not on
the straight and narrow entirely.
The thing I see in the women traders is
that they will quietly overlever their
account when they're in relationships
that they're in codependency with. That
means the man makes the money and
they're home and they're housewives.
They take care of the children or they
homeschool the children. The
characteristics and traits and trends
that I've seen in my students are the
ones that the females are like that if
they're in an abusive relationship.
They will overlever sometimes and they
use this for the ones. And I'm thankful
and I'm never saying your name. So
please if you know who that I'm I'm
talking about you, you're not the only
one. I've I've a dozen of the women in
my my community that have been honest
with me and told me these things. And I
hope you and appreciate me sharing this
in a context that it doesn't it doesn't
out them. But I want you to understand
that women will overlever when they're
in those conditions. And why it's not
for greed's sake. They're not trying to
take it to social media. They're doing
the opposite. They're hiding it from
their spouse because they don't want
them to know that they're building up
enough money to leave that toxic
relationship because they don't have the
resources to do it right now. So,
they're quietly doing it. And then when
they get abused physically or verbally,
they end up taking larger trades because
they want to reassure themselves that I
am in a position that I can replace him.
He's toxic. He's not good for my
children. He's not good for me. We can't
resolve this. But I can't leave.
I can't escape this right now. I have no
family members, no friends that I can
lean on. So, I'm by myself. So, I'm
going to do something that I know I
shouldn't do, but I'm at my wit's end.
So, I'm going to overlever. You need to
recognize that
because that is not an invitation for a
faster exit.
That's you doing something incorrectly
and that's not making you a good trader.
If you get rewarded with a big win,
you're going to feel more inclined to do
it again. The next time he hits you, the
next time he talks down to you, the next
time he abuses the kids, the next time
you feel like you should be out of that
relationship and you can't stand it
anymore, you just want to jump out of
your own skin.
Those are those triggering moments.
Those are the triggering moments.
And you have to recognize that in
yourself. So that way when you start
feeling that impulsive nature start
rising up in you and you're trading with
real money, turn the charts off. Go do
something else. Go exercise. Go run. Go
read a book. Go hang out with friends.
Go meet some. Hey, you got time to meet
me for lunch? Take yourself away from
the marketplace.
I'm telling you, this is the real
reality of how you're going to have to
deal with this stuff. It's not just
going in every day finding a setup and
making money. That's not how this is at
all.
There's so many things that you're going
to have to wrestle with and you don't
even realize what they are and 99% of
them are in your head or in your
personal life.
There is they're either physical things
that you're coping with in a
relationship or a lack of a relationship
and you're lonely and you have somebody
that you're interested in. Then
you want to get her attention. You want
to drive up in a nice car and you're
thinking, "All I got to do is split my
account this many times, have 20
accounts linked together, and I can get
$100,000 in the next couple months if I
just do this. Build my account up. Then
I can go and get a a Lamborghini leased.
I only got to pay $3,700 a month. I can
make that. It's easy."
And you're going to do stupid stuff to
try to win the attention of some person
you don't even know.
You don't know what they're going to do
when they find out that you drive that
Lamborghini.
you're doing all the wrong things. And I
did all the wrong things as a
20-year-old. And I'm telling you, as a
50-year-old, I can tell you that I wish
I could go back in time and talk to
myself. I did a I did a series in this
YouTube channel. Literally, if I could
go back and tell myself these things and
everything I'm talking about in there,
look at every influencer today. It flies
in the face of everything they do
because it's all about engagements,
getting you worked up into a frenzy
about trading, pushing buttons, and
making money. And nobody's talking about
the realities of what you're going to
feel while trying to learn how to do
that. And what happens when you get into
a winning trade? None of you have any
coping skills for that.
You think you've ever felt excited and
and and like short of breath because
you're losing money when you have a
really big fast running winner. It's
worse. It's worse than losing money.
Your very first winning trade that's
large and that you didn't have a limit
order to it out at and it's just running
for you.
It's it's
impossible for me to outline and explain
what it feels like. It is a terrible
feeling. because you don't know what to
do if you get out. What if it kept
running? What if I stay in it goes and
reverses as fast as it ran in my favor
and it becomes hugely lost?
You have no idea what you're going to
feel.
Which is why I teach you have partials,
have limit orders, because it prepares
you for that inevitable moment when you
have your first runner that you didn't
have a limit order on. It keeps you from
ever having that fearful moment.
Everything I teach is sound logic. It's
rooted on real world experience. How I
hurt myself, how I built myself back
from it, how I learned from mistakes
that you don't need to make for
yourself. You don't need to do these
things, Caleb. You don't need to go
through all these painful lessons. You
don't need that.
You can do it far faster than I did. you
can be so much better than me because I
have scar tissue that every single time
I get into a trade, I have dozens of
other instances where I remember I
remember taking a trade in iron, not
iron, copper, and I was like, I ought to
get in here and uh do something
different because I felt like this the
last time and I tell myself, what does
the model say? I'm supposed to be
trading price action. I'm supposed to be
trading the model, not I remember the
last time I hurt myself 25 years ago.
I've done it a lot when I was younger
and those scar tissue. It's like a bad
relationship. You punish the people that
you're in relationship with now for the
things that they did to you, but they
didn't do anything to you, but you're
punishing that person. You're punishing
them for the things in the scar tissue
that you've carried into a previous
relationship. That's the same thing that
trading is going to do because you don't
even see it. You don't even think about
it. You don't even think about those
things because these 20-year-old
chairmans of multi-level marketing don't
know how to trade, can't make any money.
They're out there trying to tell you how
to be an enterprise
by doing market level marketing, not
trading,
getting people to be a sucker to buy in
behind you.
I don't do those things.
I'm telling you in a manner that is not
sugarcoated at all and it's
uncomfortable. These lectures are not
comfortable. They don't make you feel
good, but they make you take personal
inventory. And a lot of people are going
to sign. I don't know. I don't even want
to look at it. I'll look at it when I'm
done. I'll look at the analytics and see
what the uh the watch
numbers are on it. But I already I told
you last week I expect them to be low.
But then change the fact that I'm
telling my son these things this week.
He needs to know these things. So that
way it calibrates his mindset and says,
"You know what? I don't need to impress
dad by doing this this this. I am going
to follow a model. And by default, dad
will be pleased that I'm only doing what
is is expected of me. I'm not trying to
present more evidence that I have
learned more than I should have right
now because dad's not expecting me to
have that. And it's liberating.
Contrast that with go get out there and
start trading. Start with a real
account, couple hundred bucks. You'll
learn how to trade when you do that.
That's an idiot's mentality.
I promise you, that's the same person
that's take, they're afraid to take
trades.
Every single trade they take, they're
fearful of it. They're fearful of taking
the trades like that. And they can lie
all they want. We come out here and
let's see it.
They won't do it. Oh, you're a demoer.
They'll just cop out doing it that way.
But I'm telling you the real stuff. This
is the real things that matter most
because this is the stuff that's going
to allow you to be successful or it's
going to make you tap out. You're going
to do something that causes you to blow
out and you won't want to do whatever it
takes you to refund an account or take a
week or two off and then go back in do
another funded account challenge if
that's what you want to do. I'm not
saying that's what you should do, but
you have to give yourself flexibility
and time and how much time is it going
to take for you. I don't know how much
baggage you have. How much baggage have
you brought into this? How much are you
hiding
to your friends and your family? They
may never know the depths of the anxiety
and depression you're wrestling with
because you got real good at hiding it.
But you won't be able to hide it in
trading.
I promise you. It is like a scrying
mirror. Okay, a scrying mirror is a bowl
that's painted black and people used to
stare into it and meditate and sometimes
they would see visions about what it is
they feel they should be doing or
whatever. But it is a scrying mirror. It
will show you the ugliest parts of you
and you will not be able to mask it. You
will not be able to hide it. It will
manifest itself in stunning fashion.
You're impulsive, greedy. Well, guess
what? You're going to blow your account
in stunning fashion, in such amazing
speed. It's going to happen so fast your
head's going to spin and you're going to
act like you're surprised. Wow,
how did this happen so quick?
And I'm telling you why.
I'm telling you why.
the things that you hold inside that are
repeating toxic things that make you
less of a success
than you would be if you overcome them.
But you can't overcome them until you
recognize them, right? And everybody
wants to stay comfortably hiding. They
don't want the friends and family. They
don't want the social media people to
know that, hey, um maybe I'm not
entirely perfect when we walk around
pretending that we are. Social media is
a a wonderful opportunity for everybody
to pretend there's nothing wrong with
them. They do everything right.
I don't hide that. That's why I'm very
polarizing. People say, "Wow, you're
you're bipolar." You know, you start
ranting and cussing. I'm a Christian.
You say you're a Christian and you talk
in that language. Let me tell you
something. Let me spend one week with
you and I'll show you how you're a
Christian, too. Right? You're never
walking on water. Okay? Everybody makes
mistakes and I repent for everything I
do. I don't claim to be perfect, but I'm
not going to get out here and pretend
that I don't have these real experiences
that I had to go through and the coping
mechanisms that I had to go through to
to fix them. But I had to identify that
I had them. And I hid them for a long
time because I built myself up in front
of my family, in front of my friends,
and they all said that this was never
going to manifest itself and be
successful. I would never know how to be
able to beat the markets. They said it's
never going to happen. Nobody can beat
the market. Nobody can. Nobody knows how
to time the market. That was constantly
said on CNBC and FN back then before it
was CNBC.
Nobody can time the market. And they
still try to say nobody can time the
market. Well, you know better than that
now. But you can't time the market until
you learn how to do it. And you won't
learn how to do it properly until you
remove these big barriers. They're like
rocks in your shoe. And you might think
that, oh, it's not a big deal. You know,
I'm I'm going to keep doing this. But if
you try to run before you get that rock
out, you're not going to run as long and
without pain and you won't fatigue as
soon as you would if you had a rock in
your shoe. Think about it.
If you had a if you had a rock in your
shoe and you're expected to run 10 miles
or even walk it.
As a younger man, I used to be
frustrated. I would get a rock in my
shoe and I like I ain't stopping untying
my shoe, taking my shoe off to get this
rock out and then have to put the shoe
back on. I have to tie the whole time.
That's that's aggravating. That's a man.
I'm not going to pull over and ask for
directions. I'm going to figure it out
and waste the gas tank. That's what men
do. What does the woman want to do?
Well, let's pull over and ask this
person. No, I ain't doing that. What are
you doing? They're going to think I'm
stupid if I ask for directions. She's
not thinking that they're going to think
that she's stupid. She's thinking I need
to get somewhere. I have a process. I'm
getting somewhere with the with the most
efficient direction and pathway. There
it is. I don't want to be in this car
with you. That's what she's thinking.
But the husband's like, I don't want to
look stupid to that other man. And
that's what trading is. You don't want
to make mistakes because you think
everybody's sitting in your trading room
with you seeing everything you're doing
while you're in every fluctuation of
that trade and you're making your trade
harder because you think that way.
Think about it. It's funny, but it's
also uncomfortable, isn't it? You might
You were laughing at first, but you
start thinking, "Shit, you just nailed
me. He literally just nailed me to a
wall." That's me. He's talking about me
right now. I'm talking about me. You
just ripped you you just resonate with
it because you're like, I'm doing that
same stuff. I did all that stuff, too. I
did all that stuff, too.
But there's a way to get past all that.
But you got to make changes and you have
to identify what they are and you have
to take advantage of this time in your
development. This stage in your
development. This is the most critical
time. This is the foundation everything
is going to be built upon. If you rush
it, you will only go so far. You might
be able to make some money, but you're
not retiring.
You're not living on your trading. I
guarantee you that that's not going to
happen. Nobody lives on their trading
and makes a huge enterprise out of their
success in trading. when they have not
overcome these demons.
You need to recognize what they are.
Some of you are going to have all of the
box checked. Anxious, fearful,
impatient,
um just everything. Greed,
you'll have every box checked. But
there's a coping mechanism I'm going to
teach you this week that overcomes all
of them. And I'm not talking about going
into the Bible, but that's that's the
best one really. But that's all I'm
going to say on that. I had I had to
slide that in there. Okay. But there are
physical things that you can do.
Anxiety attacks. I'm going to teach you
how to overcome an anxiety attack, how
to prevent one. I'm going to teach you
how to fix heart palpitations when you
start having, you know, rapid heartbeats
when you're when you're trading. I'm
going to tell you how fix all that
stuff. But when you start feeling those
physical symptoms,
if you're any bit of a hypochondric,
it'll scare you and then it revs up into
full panic. In full panic, you're not in
control of yourself. So, you never want
to be in full panic when you're in a
trade because you won't know when to
pull the plug. You won't know when to
get out of the trade. You won't see it.
You Everything is moving so fast. your
your your brain's processing f so fast
because you're in fight or flight
and you will have a clouded me mind
because
everything is standing still. You're not
doing anything but your brain saying
we're going 100 miles an hour and we
have something to do. What is it we want
me to do? I'm ready. I have the
adrenaline. I'm ready. We got to run.
I'm ready. If we have to fight, I'm
ready. But you're standing still.
And if you're standing still, you're
going to feel the physical effects of
adrenaline being in your body, which is
going to increase your heart rate, and
you're not doing anything to burn the
adrenaline off. And then you start
feeling cortisol. And cortisol is your
stress hormone.
And you will literally start feeling
things that are uncomfortable if you've
never felt them before. Tingling in in
spots on your face. When I would have
it, it would be in my left eyebrow. my
left eyebrow would start tingling and it
would drift underneath my left eye and
go into where my left nostril was. And
I'm thinking I'm having a stroke.
I'm stroking out.
And then I started thinking that and
thinking, I am stroking out. Let me
check my pulse. Well, now you're doing
the wrong thing. Look for other
symptoms, Michael. Of course, my heart
rate's over 150 beats a minute. I'm
attacking like crazy. And what does that
do? Speeds it up even more.
And then 10 minutes later, paramedics
are at my house telling me, "Bear down
or I'm going to have to give you
something to stop you because your heart
rate's 220 beats a minute.
Do you want to go through these
experiences
or do you want to listen to me?" Because
given the enough opportunity, some of
you will go through that or worse, if
you're not healthy. If I was not healthy
going through all that stuff, I probably
would have had a heart attack. I
probably would have had a real stroke.
Even if you're healthy, if you keep
putting yourself in that condition, you
wear your arteries down.
And that stress hormone, cortisol, the
way your body fights that is it lays
down cholesterol in your arteries.
What is that going to do? It's going to
further increase the likelihood that
you're going to eventually pop.
So, it's important for you to make this
boring.
You do not want it. I'm on a boat. tea
paying in the background. You know, it
ain't about all that, okay? It's about I
am following a boring model and that
boring model can make as much as I want
it to and I don't have to elevate the
excitement or fear.
Let the money management do the heavy
lifting, but you're just doing the same
boring things that are not hidden from
you on the chart.
Be forgiving. Give yourself permission
to be infallible.
No, I said that wrong. Fallable. You
don't want to be walking around like
you're infallible. And that's what men
try to do. They try to walk around like
they're man of steel, Superman. Women,
they all they always ask me the right
questions. I've never had a female
student ever ask me a question that
sound like a man's perspective. It's
never happened. It has never ever
happened.
Men always are looking for ways that
keep their ego from being bruised.
Women are looking for a way to focus on
what matters most for the model to be
equipped in their hands appropriately,
not faster,
so they don't do it wrong. Men,
how can I run my account up and how can
I uh pyramid? That's a man's question.
How can I go out and win the Super Bowl?
I've never worn pads before and I've
never had a football in my hand.
Good luck with that.
Good luck with that. It's funny when you
really sit back as I've had a very
unique perspective as an educator having
so many people come through the fold.
It's astonishing to see the same things
repeating based on the female
perspective and the male perspective.
And I have lesbian students, I have gay
students, and it's still the same thing.
men that are living gay lives, they
don't think like women. They still have
the same thought processes of the man.
It's they want to do more. The women,
even though they may live a gay
lifestyle, they're still thinking like a
woman. And to me, that's astonishing as
well because you can't escape who you
are. And that's the problem with
trading. If you come in with toxic
thinking, if you come in with flawed
logic or high expectations that are
unrealistic for you to meet, no wonder
you're going to want to quit so soon.
You've made it harder for yourself. You
don't need any extra help. It's going to
be a very daunting task because you have
to overcome yourself first. And
everybody that's in a 90% bracket that
quits and loses money and never does it
anymore, it's because they lost to
themselves. Look at how many times they
traded. You don't know. That doesn't fit
me. ICT, I've been doing this for 12
years. I've never been profitable. You
don't know me, man. How many times have
you really traded? You probably took
three or four trades and blew the
account. That's not enough experience.
You just did things impulsively and you
wrecked yourself and you had to wait and
talk yourself into getting more money or
whatever. Sell some stuff in the garage.
Now, with funded accounts, now all you
got to do is, you know, wait a little
while and the wife won't know about it
and then pay for it. Get yourself a
prepaid credit card off the bank or
whatever in the aisle at food line and
I'll just pay with that. She won't know.
That's a problem. That is a problem. So,
you know enough that you know that
you're not going to follow the rules and
you're going to hide it from her. If
you're married, if you're in a serious
relationship, you need to explain to
them that you're pursuing this and
you're not expecting to make any money
soon, but this has now become a a major
focus for you. Like like a college
pursuit.
That way, you're not feeding them
[__] in the beginning like, "Oh,
we're going to be able to quit our jobs
and build up." Don't Don't tell your
spouse that. Don't tell your spouse that
because you now elevated it to a level
of expectation that they're going to
hold you to. And why wouldn't they? You
took it upon yourself to tell them that
stuff. They love you and they trust you.
So, why would you think that they're not
going to expect that you're going to
live up to that? And when you don't, in
your eyes, you're gonna f you're going
to manifest all the stress indicators.
You're gonna be grumpy. You're not going
to be paying attention when the
conversation's taking place. And when
you start seeing these things in your
personal life, you need to take
inventory of that. Recognize them. Don't
try to hide from it because all of
that's going to do what? It's going to
manifest itself in these candlesticks.
Just like a scrying mirror, you're going
to see things that's going to show you
your ugly side. And what are you going
to do? You're going to feel
uncomfortable. And as a man, you're
going to do what? You're going to plow
ahead. You're going to draw your sword,
throw your shield down. You're going to
draw your sword and run head on to meet
that thing. And you're ill equipped, and
it's going to take your head off. The
women in that same circumstance, they're
going to sit still and do nothing, and
they'll be paralyzed, and they won't
take a trade. That's the dynamic with
man and female.
That's how they think as a trader.
That's how they engage price in this
stage. That's what they do. I have the
data to support that. I have a million
plus students and I've had several
decades of teaching and I have said to
the same
talking points I'm giving you here. I've
had more people say, "I can't do that.
I don't want to I don't want to think
about the things I'm doing wrong. So, I
just try to power through it as a man.
Or a woman will say, "I'm just not going
to take the initiative to make that
change."
So, they either sit still and do nothing
or the man does too much.
And that's the repeating phenomenon that
comes for the people that are spinning
the wheels that never find their way in
this stuff. I promise you it's not just
because it's my content. They would have
those same things in any other uh
discipline of trading. It's because it's
it's it's in them. That's the that's the
problem. When I was losing money and
blowing accounts as a 20-year-old, none
of it had anything to do with the
trading because the moves I was blowing
my account on, they weren't even that
big of a move. There was just small
little retracements that I was
overleveraged on and I would try to make
big positions with very very very small
stop- losses and those cuts would just
be boom boom boom and then the account's
gone. And I was right that the market
was going to go up to those levels I was
aiming for. But I was not allowing
myself to trade with just one contract
and use a reasonable stop-loss and just
let it happen.
I was trying to maximize as much as I
could because I wanted to leave working.
I wanted to be able to turn to my family
and friends and say, "You were wrong
about me." So, what was I trading for?
Everything outside of being successful.
I was trading to impress people that
really looking back now, they had no
impact on me.
Whether whether I did it or didn't, they
didn't have any power over me, but I was
giving them power by what I was doing.
And you don't see it that way when
you're going through it. and all these
other things. It may not be that for
you. It may be something else. There's
so many things. I don't want to list
everything because I've already longer
than I was supposed to again. But this
is such a rich topic that
I was going to write a a fourth book and
let it be about these types of things,
but I I just don't feel comfortable
writing it. I think sharing my stories,
letting you hear me, hear me tell you
what I went through, it means more. And
it's also therapeut therapeutic for me
because it allows me to detox myself
because there are some times when
I think about how I could have done
things better for myself if I would have
done things to fix my personal issues,
address certain things in insecurities.
When I had my first wife, you know, I
was telling her when we were together, I
said, "I'm going to be rich. I'm going
to be a traitor and I'm going to live a
different lifestyle and your parents
just don't understand." And she nodded
and gave me a kiss and yep, you know,
we'll see. But that's not saying I
believe you. That was like dismissing
it. And I still feel that today. And
I've not been with that woman for
decades.
We're talking about when I was 19 years
old.
I would feel pain that's rooted. Not not
that one because I didn't start trading
till 20, but I have things that I can go
back to. And you have it too. And you
have to journal that. You have to put
that in your journal and say, "These are
my scars. This is what makes me feel
insecure." And when my wife left me for
a 40-year-old man,
that was embarrassing for me.
And it scarred me. And it made me take
crazy risks because he drove my dream
car, a Corvette, and bought it with a
with a winning lottery ticket that she
paid for and he spent it and bought a
vet. And I had to wrestle with, do I
really like vets anymore? Because he did
that. I love vets. [__] him. He He can
do whatever he wants to do. But I own
two of them now. And when I drive them,
I don't think about them. I think about
my car. This is my dream car. Everybody
else can have their dream car. When I
was a little boy, the Corvette was my
dream car, and I could afford anything
else out there, but I like that car.
It's It's always been my thing.
You have something that is deeply rooted
inside you that causes you pain.
Mine was embarrassment and shame that my
first wife, who I never wanted to be
with anybody else with, and she was the
one I lost my virginity to, I could tell
you the date, okay? I can tell you the
time that it happened. Ask any other
man, they probably can't tell you that.
But that's what it meant for me. It was
it was important for me and I didn't
want to be with anybody else. So when
she left me, I was scarred, cut deeply.
And the whole neighborhood knew about
it. They knew about before I did.
So I was shamed. I was embarrassed. And
but it was something I didn't I didn't
cause it. But she didn't live with me in
a marriage that she thought that we were
going to bloom into anything.
Looking back now,
I think she made the wrong decision. But
it's okay. I wasn't meant to be with
her.
But I still carry all of that scar
tissue. But that same scar tissue
doesn't make me get into a trade. When
it was doing it back then, when I was
20, I was racing to make money to
impress her, to win her back.
And I wasn't supposed to be with her.
I'm supposed to be with my wife I'm with
now with the children and the family I
have now.
But I have that same scar tissue that
does have no influence on me now. But
when you go through your personal life
and you write down the things that make
you feel invincible,
are you lying to yourself? Are they
really things that make you feel strong
or are you masking something,
compensating for something else? because
that's the thing that's going to hurt
you. The thing that you're guarding and
hiding from yourself and everyone else,
that is the very thing that's going to
motivate you when you are weak. And
you're going to get weak. You're going
to feel impatient. You're going to feel
like you're missing out on something.
You're going to just need to feel like
you matter or that you're successful or
you can do this.
And at that moment, you're going to tap
into I'm going to do this because I have
to prove to myself that that can't hurt
me. And you're going to take larger
risk. You're going to trade more
frequently. And you're going to trade
when there isn't a setup there because
you want to replace that feeling of what
you feel all the time, but you pretend
it's not there. It wells up inside you.
You're shamed. You're embarrassed.
Someone hurt you. Someone physically
hurt you. Someone took something from
you. you couldn't arrive at a a level in
your relationship and you lost them
or you left somebody and then you know
that you left them by mistake and now
they're with somebody else and you can't
win them back. How heartbreaking is
that?
And I have students that say that they
would do anything to impress them to get
them away from the person they're with
now.
That's not likely to happen. but they
carry that stuff in them and then they
go into the trades and they say, "I need
to feel better because I can't escape
that." You got to let let go of it.
A lot of the stuff that you're holding
on to, you're going to have to put it
down.
You're choosing to hold on to it. You're
choosing to protect it and nurture it
because it's become your nor your new
normal.
And how would you feel if you weren't
feeling like this every day?
It's scary. It's uncertain to you. So,
it's easier for you to hold on to this
and you live with the depression and you
live with the anxiety and you live with
the guilt and you live with the anger
and fear. And all of that's going to
manifest itself in these little
candlesticks.
They're going to be perfect little
excuses for you to vent into.
And when they don't do what you want
them to do,
it's worse.
It will cut you deeper. It'll make you
fear taking anything further steps
forward. They'll say, "Ah, this doesn't
work." And but you're lying to yourself.
You're not even using it right. It's
just like the next bottle of booze that
an alcoholic reaches for. I usually
drink Johnny Walker. I get drunk every
Friday night. I can't stand it. But
they've been having Johnny Walker, so I
just started drinking uh
whatever. I don't know what I know
Johnny Walker. I don't know what that
is. I know it's an alcohol, but I don't
know enough to know what another alcohol
drink is. It's a little It's a little
embarrassing even though I shouldn't be
embarrassed by it, but
the king of analogies just fell flat on
his face. I just don't have another
alcohol like the Budweiser. It doesn't
probably mean it's probably not the same
thing because I think Johnny Walker's a
liquor in it, but uh maybe vodka. I know
there's another thing, but uh you're
going to pick your vice,
okay? and and you're going to do
whatever you can to do it because you're
trying to escape pain and you're
self-medicating. And a lot of us
self-medicate by
tamping down pain. That means swallowing
it and pushing it down deeper. But you
can't keep doing that when you're a
trader because it's going to materialize
and manifest itself in your trades. And
then because you're having to deal with
it again and it's taking from you hope
about success, it's taking money from
you that you can't really afford to
lose. And now you've made this little
tiny gremlin, this little rock in your
shoe, a mountain in front of you with a
troll that's standing on top saying
you're never going to get up this high.
You've given it a power that it's never
had before.
It's got more influence and power to
keep you from being happy, successful,
and
well,
better.
You've given it a a power over you and
you're going to feel that and you're
going to personify the trade when it's
just doing what it's going to do
regardless of whether you're in a trade
or not.
But now you've person personalized it
and personified it and now you're
wrestling with this thing
and you can't talk about it with anybody
because how embarrassing would that be.
So in the privacy of your own journal,
not with someone on social media, not in
an email to me. Some of you probably
already sitting down writing emails.
This this right here, you just nailed me
and I I'm so thankful. Don't don't even
worry about doing that. Don't don't just
find out what it is for you. What are
these little things that you're hiding
in yourself that are scary? They're
hurtful. They hold a lot of animosity
and they are always things that you
would never want anybody to know about.
That's what I'm talking about. The
things that you are ashamed of, the
things that you are fearful that other
people might find out about you.
You're a man. I wouldn't want anybody to
think that I have uh regrets about how I
handled myself as a young man, but I've
I've openly shared that in my YouTube
channel. I don't hide it.
I had relationships with married women,
and I am not proud of that.
I mean, nobody's nobody's perfect. I'm
not making excuses for it, but these are
things that I have to live with. I have
to live with these decisions. And when I
was younger, they they were barriers for
me. They caused me to do things
impulsively because I didn't like my own
skin. I wasn't comfortable in my own
skin.
I didn't reconcile
the problems I created for myself. I
just put a band-aid and hide them. Just
pushed it down, tamped them down deep.
Long as I don't talk about it, bring it
up, nobody knows about it. And it's just
in my head. And I'll wrestle with them
as I wrestle with them. not realizing
that that stuff would manifest in my
personal relationships with my friends.
When I had to have a job, it would
manifest in my performance at work. I
was unmanageable. I would basically cuss
everybody out and tell them, "Look, you
screw you." And I had lots of jobs.
I knew I would eventually get fired if I
stayed there. So, I would quit because I
didn't want to have them have that
victory that they took me out of my job.
So, I would cuss them out, threaten
them. I'll beat your ass. And there it
is. and I would, you know, lose interest
in being there because I knew now I've
done showed my ass. So, I have to leave.
But that was a result of me not
addressing the deep rooted things in my
body, in my mind that I had to reconcile
with. And everybody has it. Everybody
has a skeleton in their closet.
Everybody has things like this. Some of
them are more significant than others,
but doesn't diminish even the ones the
least of significance that anybody else
might would look at and think, "Well,
that's not that big of a deal." But to
them that went through it and had to
live with and carry it around, it's
huge.
And they they think that no one would
understand enough. So therefore, I would
never want to see a counselor. I would
never want to talk about it. I would
never try to rectify it. I just have to
bear it and carry it and keep it with me
all the time, but never make it known to
anyone. But you let it, it sneaks out
all the time in your moments of
weakness. It usually comes out in bursts
of anger, small little things magnified
into some monumental explosion.
And something that would have never
never been an argument or a fight or an
altercation is now been thrown gas on
top of it because it's really this thing
you're guarding and protecting or afraid
now it's been manifesting. And you're
not wrestling the person you're arguing
arguing with, your spouse, your family,
your child, your boss, your co-workers.
You're wrestling with the guilt that you
did not fix this sooner and you have to
wrestle it back down deep so no one can
see it.
And that's what's happening in your
trades. That's what's going to keep
happening in your trades. And it will
not stop until you fix the root cause.
That means you have to identify what
they are. And most people don't want to.
I guarantee you the viewership of this
video has gone down precipitously
because it ain't timing the market. I'm
not telling you where the market's
going. I'm telling you, you will not be
able to find the right direction, let
alone take a trade, if you're wrestling
with these things.
Some of my best students are individuals
that were in prison or had substance
abuse problems and they fixed it before
they tried to become a traitor. I've had
students that are substance abusers that
are trying to get clean and they're
struggling because they have not fixed
themselves yet.
you won't be successful at this until
you fix that part of you.
I don't want to say anything more than
that because I don't want to be
negative,
but that's the reality.
Individuals that have gone through
in incarceration and they paid for their
crimes,
they know that this world's different
now. Like my father, he's getting ready
to come out here. He's not going to
recognize any of this stuff.
And
if he was younger,
what skill could he bring forward to to
to
be a gainful employee?
Nothing. The last thing he did
productive was shoot at Vietnamese in
the Vietnam War. That that's that's in
his mind. That's that that's it.
So he has no work skills. He has
nothing. He's not used to the way the
world is right now. and he's admitted to
my mom that he's he's scared. Now,
imagine that. 40 years. Here's a
contract murderer, Mr. Billy Badass.
He's admitted to my mother he's
terrified coming out.
So, what is he going to have when he
stepped out into the world? This same
thing. And if he's not careful, he will
let that thing manifest itself and he
could very easily make a mistake and
violate and have to go right back in
again.
How's it any different? We're talking
about the same thing. I'm teaching you
how to live.
How to live. It's not about just making
money. You have to wrestle this stuff,
keep it in subjection, and then only
then you have all of the advantages of
doing everything that's in front of you.
But if you think you're just going to
walk out here and carry all that stuff
and you're not going to have any
adversities and it's going to be easy
for you or if you're wondering why it's
so hard, it's the internal stuff that
you're wrestling with.
And it's always that this stuff isn't
complicated. The people that say, "Oh,
it's just too this is too hard.
Trading's too hard." You're just giving
up because you don't want to you don't
want to put down those demons. You're
nurturing them. these things that you're
hiding in yourself that are problems
that you know if I was
if I was a counselor and you felt
comfortable talking to me, these are the
things that you're wrestling with and
you would say these this is what I'm
going through.
It's those things that are going to be
the problems that cause you to think
this is too hard. It's too hard for you
to keep wrestling when them demons are
given opportunity to manifest
themselves. See, when you're just
tamping them down and drinking and doing
the things that you do, smoking reefer,
dumbing yourself down, calming yourself
down, medicating yourself,
you're hiding from those things.
And weed heads generally don't do very
well in trading either. And but they'll
be the same ones that will champion
their wins and go online, yeah, yeah,
yeah, look at this. Show me everything.
You're blocked.
And that's just that's the reality of
all this stuff. And you can make this
easier for yourself or you can make it
harder. And it doesn't make sense for
you to make it harder.
There's so many things I want to talk
about still, but I have plenty of time
the rest of the week. I've had a lot to
say today.
I I believe wholeheartedly the things
I've talked about. I think if you take a
moment to think about what that means
for you
really dial in on the things that you
know what you try to hide that are
terrible things that you don't like
about yourself. And I'm not talking
about your weight or how you look in the
mirror. That's not what I'm talking
about, okay? I'm talking about the
things that cause you to behave and
think the way you think. something
scarred you, something made you angry or
something scared you so bad
that that you have not reconciled that
or it's a physical
dependency on alcohol or drugs.
That's it.
Because if you have the mental
faculties, it doesn't matter if you're
in a wheelchair, you could be an amazing
trader, better than me. You being in a
wheelchair or handicapped has absolutely
no bearing on how you can trade because
it's your mind.
You could literally be a quadripolgic
and tell the person next to you, "All
right, press the buy button. Put the
stop loss." So, and there it is. Who's
doing the trade? You are. You don't need
your body to do it. You need your mind.
Because trading is won in the
battlefield of your mind. Your trade's a
winning trade before it's realized in
that chart and your take-profit is hit.
before that happens, it's already a
winning trade in your mind. Because if
you can't see it, believe it, it's going
to deliver like that, it's never going
to go there.
So, how do you have a clear mind to get
to that point? You have to get rid of
all your baggage. Got to get rid of all
that toxic stuff, toxic thinking, all
the online drama stuff, all the Are you
someone that constantly goes to drama
stuff on the internet? Not just in the
trading industry, but everywhere. Are
you a Jerry Springer trader? You just
can't wait to get in somebody else's
business to see what they're doing wrong
because chances are you love that
because you are hiding so much more in
yourself.
That just hurt somebody's feelings right
there, too.
Drama marketing, drama this, drama that.
People flock to that stuff because it's
a perfect excuse to hide the very things
that they don't like about themselves
because they're they're thinking, "Well,
I hate living with this every day, but
you know what? This is a beautiful
distraction that I'm not the only one
out there that's a train wreck and I
have a chance to laugh at that person
like everybody else and I'm guarded. I'm
protected. They don't know the things
I'm wrestling with because look what
they would do if they knew this about
me."
And that's exactly what you're going to
experience in trading. That stuff is
going to well up. It's going to boil up
over top and spill over into your trades
until you reconcile them. You have to
fix what they are. I have toident I have
to identify them first, right? And
that's scary. It's uncomfortable. But
nobody needs to know what they are.
You have power over this stuff. You have
power over it. And you place it in your
journal. You identify it. I feel
insecure because this happened to me.
Okay, release it.
It doesn't define who you are.
Don't give it any more power.
Acknowledge it. Say, "Yeah, it's it's
real for you to feel hurt when things
happen to you. You're you're a human
being with emotions. It's normal for you
to feel that way." But social media has
made it feel like we shouldn't have any
emotions. We shouldn't care about
nothing.
Say things to people that they would
never hear you say to their face,
divisiveness.
You have to just let all that stuff go.
And if you invite other people into this
experiment of you going through the
process of learning how to do trade in
the early stages, you have made it so
much harder.
You have now increased the level of
difficulty to expert level.
and you're not an expert.
You're a neophite.
You're just starting.
And that's why Caleb will not have
comments open on this YouTube channel
because what's going to happen is he's
going to read them. And in a moment of
weakness, he's going to say, "Yeah, this
person said this and this, this, and
then I'm going to hear it. I'm going to
see it.
And then I'm going to have to tell him
I'm angry that that this did that." and
I'm gonna go out online and I'm gonna
say this, that, and the other thing, and
they're gonna clam up and they're going
to do nothing, but I'm gonna react to
that because I'm like whack-a-ole. I
like smacking trolls around. I love
that. It's a sport for me. So, to keep
him from getting that recreational sport
in his own thinking, he's not allowed to
have the comments. He's not allowed to
have interactions with any of you
because he's learning. But I've already
told him, man, I said the other day when
we were driving around, went to the gun
range, I said, "Once you get to the
point where you don't need that to tell
you anything, you know your model, you
know what you can do, and you're carving
out your own money and it's significant
amount of money, if you want to go out
there and act like a fool and and spar
with these people online because they're
idiots,
I'm not going to be in your way about
it. I'm not. But I just think it's dumb
to do it because as the world's
changing,
people that have a following like myself
and other people, okay?
I might say something about someone's
discipline and make fun of it. Okay?
In reality, sometimes I backpedal and I
think to myself, you know what the state
of the world is right now in the way
it's so com we're in a combustible state
globally. All it takes is the right
little spark and everybody can easily
blow up. And that's what social media
has cultivated. That's exactly why it
was instigated. It was started for that
very reason. And now it's festering on
everybody like they can't wait to get
online. Think about how many times
you're looking at your phone
Your face is in the phone like a zombie
all the time. You have a 4-inch universe
that you're spending more time in than
you are in the real world
looking for everybody else to give you a
dopamine hit, like your post, or you get
to like somebody else's post, hoping
that they like that you liked it. Again,
you're doing all the wrong things and
you're trying to apply that same logic
to trading. You want an emotional
response. You want a dopamine hit. You
want an immediate tick- tock experience
where you did something in the market,
you entered the trade, so now you want
to see a 100 handle run just like that.
And when it doesn't happen or it's
slowly moving,
you're uncomfortable.
I'm trying to prevent that kind of stuff
with Caleb.
I don't I don't want him doing the toxic
things I've done. I'm trying to be
the best guide but still be his dad. And
I have to admit it's very challenging
because in the past and I had a little
bit of it last Thursday. I had a blast
but I had to get that out of me.
But I'm trying very hard to be balanced
because he knows what I'm capable of. He
also has seen me in the real world when
I had to do things when people were
making threats to me or our family. Like
I I am not afraid of things like that.
If something's in front of me, I'm going
to run it over. I'm going to be a
bulldozer and run it over. I don't cower
from nothing. I don't hide from nothing.
I'm in your face immediately. I want to
neutralize whatever is the problem. I'm
neutralizing it. It's not going to hang
around. It's not going to fester. That
Let's go. you want to go, let's go.
That's not his mentality. And I told
him, I said, "When you start making
money, I do not want the biggest thing.
If you want to impress dad and you want
to live up to my hopes for you, I told
him, I said, I want you to have more
control over yourself than I have.
I want you to be able to say nothing
that anything on the in the internet has
ever bothered you because the way you
live your life once you get acclimated
to this and you're successful when you
get to that point
the thoughts and opinions of others
should never be a reason to punish
yourself. Because when you entertain
other people's opinion about you or me
or whatever it is that you're learning
how to do, when you're making money,
what does it matter? Does it really
matter what people think when you are
living on your own money that you earn
using this information?
Why would you punish yourself for other
people's opinions?
Because that's what you're doing when
you get mad about that stuff. That's why
I try to tell everybody, you think I'm
mad. I'm not mad. I'm not I'm not a mad
person. Now, I'm mad when people say
they tried to do this stuff and they
haven't really put a real good effort
into it. That's fake. That's false.
That's it's that's a lie.
And I'm forcing my son in this test tube
where he has absolutely no latitude to
be able to say, "Well, I couldn't do it
because no, that we don't we don't have
any room for that. you are in the
pressure cooker with me
and you're in front of the entire world
and they're watching this.
You asked for it and now you got it, but
you're going to do it the way it needs
to be done. And you have to make sure
that you don't fall victim into finding
dopamine, sense of accomplishment by
having other people tell you, "Wow, you
are a good trader." You know what tells
you you're a good trader? you don't have
to go to work.
That's better than anybody telling you a
message. They could have all the emojis
in the world. That ain't the same thing
as getting up and saying, "Well, I ain't
got to go in traffic today."
And make in one trade what you would
earn in gross income over three, four,
six months of your job. That's how you
feel success as a trader. Not I need
somebody outside of myself to tell me
I'm a good trader. Oh, you're ICT
junior. Oh, you're going to be the next
best thing. And you know, don't think
that way, son. Don't even have
expectations to have that.
I am impressed. I am pleased. And I am
proud of you, son.
If you just do what's laid in front of
you and you find contentment in that,
that you don't have to do more than
that.
The world is your oyster. You'll be able
to do whatever you want to do once you
figure out yourself.
But just do what I'm laying down in
front of you. If you just do that, you
have you've done far more than I ever
hoped for.
And you don't never have to impress me.
You have already done everything I've
expected of you. Because then if I have
to lay my head down for the last time
and I don't have any more time here, I
can rest my head knowing that I have
left this with you and your brothers and
your sister and your mother. They're
okay. It doesn't matter what happens.
You can do it.
That's how I think about this. I don't
want you being another ICT.
ICTs run its course. I've already said
that. I'm putting it down the end of
this year. I'm doing that my own way.
I don't want people hanging on me. I
don't want people thinking I'm a
celebrity. And honestly,
I see all of the mentions that happen.
Like if I go on the YouTube channel,
they'll say comments which I see all of
them. The ignorant ones, I just banned a
person. I don't ever see them again. You
don't realize that you're banned, but
you are. Your comment when you look at
the video, you'll see your comment still
there. I never see it. Anything past
that, I'll never see it again. I don't
have time for you. You're insignificant
to me. You're not even an ant. You're
not even that.
But there's also this little thing,
mentions. So, there's comments and
there's mentions. And once a week, I'll
go through it and I'll hit it and I'll
scroll through. I want to comment on
everybody.
But when I do leave comments on
individual channels,
generally they treat me like a celebrity
and I don't like that. Otherwise, if I
wasn't treated that way, I would be just
like one of the guys and I would comment
like everybody else does.
But you know what I'm talking about. If
I've left a comment, like immediately it
gets pinned
and then there's 1500 people comes
behind there. Oh, it's ICT. It's
Michael. He left a comment. like I'm
some [__] Elvis or something. Like
I'm literally nobody. I'm nobody.
And it makes me uncomfortable. And I
don't want you
aspiring to do that, Caleb.
I don't want you to have that aspiration
to be that's your goal. Your goal should
be I don't need to work for money and
money is a tool. I don't have to wrestle
with employers. I don't have to go and
go through the rat race and have them
steal any more time.
You're in your 20s.
You're young. You literally could carve
this out and by the time you're 30 be
ridiculously rich.
Freaking ridiculously rich. Okay? And
you can do whatever you want to do.
If you want to get on here and trade
live in front of other people,
go ahead. I would well I would I would
love that. I would love that
Viagra all day long. That would
absolutely I would love it. Do I want
you to do it? I'm not asking you to do
that. So don't think that you have to
live up to that. But if you choose to do
that, man, that would be amazing.
That would be awesome. But that's not
what I hope for you. I hope for you to
not have to work for your money. That's
what I want. I want you to feel
comfortable knowing that you can pay
your way through this world and not have
to ask somebody if you can have a day
off or a vacation and they ain't paying
you too little for your time.
You do that, you have met every
expectation I have for you. My goal is
for you to not have to work and yet you
live on your own steam, your own
efforts, and you don't get reckless with
it. You don't try to be a high roller.
Don't try to be a showoff. Don't brag.
Don't talk down to people like I did
when I was 20 years old.
I was new money. And that was me coping
with the uncomfortable state of I wanted
to flex on everybody because if they
knew all the things I was wrestling with
and the embarrassment and shame I had
cuz my wife left me for a 40-year-old
man, that was embarrassing. That was
shameful to me. So, I hid it by being a
jerk to other people. And the people
that I loved and that were friends of
mine, I lavished them with money and
gifts because I didn't want them to walk
away from me. I wanted them to make me
feel wanted and liked and appreciated,
but I had to pay for it to feel it. Is
that genuine? No. So, I I don't want you
to fall in the trap because as soon as
you start making big money and people
that know you see it, you need to be
aware of who your real friends are
because your real friends won't change.
They won't ask you for anything and they
won't increase the intensity about
wanting to be around you. The ones that
do that, that's the ones that's going to
stab you in the back. That's the ones
that are going to try to take you uh for
a ride or take advantage of you.
And
I'll reserve the rest of the stuff
tomorrow when we talk about price. I've
said enough. We've been here for a while
and I'm probably have to delete a lot of
uh members comments they were
complaining about today. That's okay.
But this is the stuff that you're going
to wrestle with as a trader, okay? And
the sooner you identify what they are
and you journal them and we work through
coping skills this week on how to
overcome all of them. If you're a
viewer, you're easedropping in this uh
lecture I'm holding with my son. I don't
and say I don't cover the thing you're
wrestling with. Say we get to Friday and
then say sometime over the weekend, you
feel like you have a unique experience
and you feel comfortable trusting me
that you know in in anity in anonymity
rather where you don't have to reveal
yourself. You can create a burner email
address and leave a comment to me like
saying this is what I wrestle with. I
won't know your name, but I would love
the opportunity to have something that I
don't cover here. And if I have a way of
mentioning what I would do to deal with
it, you I would love to have the
opportunity to do that. I would never
say who said it. I would never, you
know, pretend to be a counselor or a
psychologist. I'm not claiming to be
that. I'm not out there to fix it. But
the ones I'm going to cover this week, I
think are the most paramount ones. And a
lot of them are going to be very similar
to the ones I'm going to talk to and
speak on. But
the main thing is is not to be fearful
of identifying those problem
characteristics and traits within
yourself because if you're insecure as a
person, and mine was insecurity,
um it will manifest itself in your
traits and then you'll beat yourself up.
protecting that demon of insecurity or
hurt or fear or anxiety about something
or you're in a problem relationship,
whatever that is, you're going to guard
that thing and you're going to beat
yourself up. Oh, you're stupid. You
don't know how to trade. You can't learn
how to do this or this stuff doesn't
work. You're going to externalize all of
the results instead of saying, "See,
this is further evidence that I'm
manifesting all this toxic stuff I'm
holding on to because I'm making
decisions based on periods when I lean
on that stuff in a state of normaly."
You punish yourself every day. You don't
realize it, but you are. And just think
about how many times you think you think
or say toxic things all day. The average
person says over 300 negative things per
day.
No way. No way. Well, I can tell you
what. I can do about 15 times that
because I talk too much, right? But the
average person thinks and says over 300
negative things a day.
It could be self-centered attacking
themselves or doubt.
Perfect example. I was telling Caleb, I
know we're supposed to end the video,
but I got it just jumped on my head. I
was explaining this to my son. And I
said, "Listen,
the channel will grow and it'll
alleviate some of the pressure you're
feeling while you're learning, okay?
It'll probably be around $10,000 a month
when we get to Thanksgiving or just
after Thanksgiving." And he shook his
head like, "No way. No way." And I'm
like, "Are you nuts?" Like, I already
know as soon as I start putting videos
up there, all of the members here that
watch on this channel, just morbid
curiosity is going to take their
attention over there. And even if they
just watch it for a few minutes, they're
watching it. Okay? So, they'll see what
it's all about. Whether they stay or
not, it's not important. But people will
watch it because they most of the people
want to see how you're evolving in it.
And then they're going to feel
comfortable about their yourself because
they're going to see that you're going
through the same things that they're
going through because they look at you
as my child like my son should not have
any adversities because he's ICT.
son, his dad is ICT. So therefore, it's
unreasonable to expect him or any of his
offspring to have any hardship in
learning how to do this because he's
ICT's son. Like that's somehow an
advantage. We're all human beings. We
all wrestle with stuff. We all wrestle
with stuff. And they're going to have
the unique perspective because you said
you were willing to do this, which I'm
astonished by, but you said you were
willing to do it. And you're going to be
very candid about what you're feeling,
what you're fearful of, what you're
making a big deal out of that may or may
not be valid. And they're going to take
a whole lot of solace in that because
they are going to be able to see that,
wow, this is the same [__] I'm thinking.
I've been thinking the whole time, I'm
I'm stupid for feeling this way. And
here's ICT, son. Even doing the same
things, thinking and worrying about the
same things. But they will they'll see
this is how I'm going to to coach and
teach you how to go through that
and then they can apply that same logic
to themselves. Whether or not it works
for them, I'm not promising that. But
you're my son, so I'm giving you this is
the solution I'm supposing that you
should use
or if it's something I went through,
this is how I overcame it. Or this is
what you should do to work around it
till you get better at it. and then your
success will counter a lot of the things
that you have as a problem. The problem
is he's a male. And I've seen a few
times where as a young man and
especially as a little boy given enough
rope, he'll run wild. Like he'll he'll
he'll go wild. Out of all my kids, I'm
impressed that he's the one that's
wanting to do this. I thought for sure
it was going to be Cody. It's not. And I
thought Cameron because he's very
competitive in sports, but it's not. And
now he's he made he's the only one that
said, "I want a second chance at it,
Dad."
Because they found out that it's not
easy. And it's easy to say, "You know
what? I'm just going to lay it down. I
got dad, you know, he's always here.
Whenever I want to, he'll he'll he'll
gladly want to teach me." And I've been
frustrated because I've been wanting
them. just one of them. Just go through
the ropes, find your model, and make
money, and your brothers and your sister
will be like, "Oh, I want to do that
now." It's like anything else.
You give one kid an ice cream or a toy,
they're all going to get they're all
going to want to listen. I'm I'm a good
girl, mommy. I'm a good girl, daddy.
What do you want me to do? I clean my
room. They're going to do all the things
you want a kid to do when one child is
given a reward.
So,
you're going to see what it's like for
him.
You're going to hear it. You're going to
see his struggles. You're going to see
all that stuff. But I told him, I don't
want him to uh get cocky.
I don't want to see arrogance. I told
him, I said, "If I see you do that, I'm
done."
I told him, I said, "How you conduct
yourself in the real world when I'm not
around you." Because right now, you only
have a video on there and already
there's 20,000 people subscribed to your
channel. When you start seeing more
traffic and there's more interest around
you, people will want to befriend you.
They're going to be like, "Oh," they're
going to say everything to blow smoke up
your ass to make you feel like that
you're, you know, you're something
you're not. Don't allow that. Don't
allow it.
You just stay who you are. You're
humble, Caleb. That's it. You're not
trying to be ICT 2.0, Mr. Ego, kid ego.
You're not trying to do all that stuff.
If you never set that mark that high,
nobody will expect you to live up to it.
And guess what that means? You're
liberated from all that stuff.
Everybody wants me to go out there and
do the impossible things.
If you never ever do those things, they
will never hold you in that regard. And
anything that you share publicly, as
long as it's a person with common sense,
they'll they'll say, "Well, you know,
that's that's an interesting
experience that you you shared. It may
or not may not be an invitation for
other people to mimic what you're doing
and try to copy it and say, "Well,
that's the p that's the path I'm going
to go."
but they'll be morbidly curious to see
what it is.
And the pressure that you're feeling
from your job, that will reduce a little
bit. And then that deficit in stress and
pressure you feel while you're working
will give you more energy and it'll
stoke the fires for you to study more,
which does what? It shifts all the
concern and pressure away from what
everybody's used to doing, which is the
nineto-ive rat race. And then
it'll you'll start feeding that
secondary hustle which is learn how to
trade. This is why I tell all of you as
my students
once you learn your model, once you
learn it,
I don't have a problem with you going
out there and doing YouTube channels and
running up, you know, a subscriber base
where people are watching you use it. I
I I encourage that. Number one, it is
it's further solidifies with more
testimonial and proof that I have
profitable students using what I taught.
It doesn't just work in my hands. It
works in the students that put the
effort into it. But you also while
you're growing, because you're not going
to be a millionaire overnight. Some of
you may never become a millionaire. You
might just make a couple thousand here
and there a couple times a year. And
hey, it's better than not having money
at all, right? Let's be real. Not
everybody's going to be rich from it. I
don't claim you're going to be rich from
it. But you have the potential to make
as much as you want.
But while you're learning how to get
better at it and until you can arrive at
I don't need to work anymore.
It would be foolish for you not if you
have the disposition and personality to
to live stream. I don't believe I do.
It may seem like I do, but I don't I
don't believe I do. I I I
like to talk in pre-recorded sessions
because I've already said certain things
in this live stream that I would have
liked to edit out because I felt like I
was being too personal or maybe
mentioning things that may upset people
that are wrestling with certain things.
I would have cut that stuff out like
substance abuse and stuff like that.
Like I wish I could go back and take
that part out. That's what I'm I'm
thinking in my head as I'm talking to
you. I would I would have edited that
part out. And some of you be like, you
know, I'm glad you said it. But there's
a lot of people that were would come
forward and say, I wish you wouldn't
have said that. Or they'll claim, stop
trying to be a psychologist. You're a
crackpot anyway. Anyway, like you you're
always going to have some kind that's
going to be argumentative.
But I want uh I want Caleb to know that
he doesn't have to live up to high lofty
expectations. And I'm helping him lay
down a foundation of what is reasonable,
what is now in an an area where it's
going to be problematic.
and he has to conduct himself now as a
public figure
because
I've been in public and people have seen
me in public and sometimes they get out
of their cars, they're walking around
with their phone and they're filming me
and taking pictures of me and my wife
and wow ICT, you know, can you and I'm
like and it is ridiculous. It's
absolutely ridiculous. I hate it. I
don't like it. I don't want to be like
that and I don't want I certainly don't
want my son like that. And it's
uncomfortable. You don't know what these
people are going to do. They may pretend
like they're you're want to take a
picture with you. Just get close enough
to hurt you or your family, you know,
and I I don't want those problems. So, I
told Caleb, "You're not a celebrity.
You're not trying to be a celebrity. And
as soon as you start carrying yourself
arrogantly, I'm done. You'll know as
much as you know, and it'll be it." And
I that's that's what I want for him. And
if he lives humbly and he learns to make
a good living, he can he can do whatever
he wants to do online and not be, you
know, celebrity status.
The problem is I've invited listeners to
feel like I'm approachable,
like you feel like you really know me.
And unfortunately, some people have
taken a step too far, thinking, I really
like Michael. He's a nice person. He's
going to appreciate me going up and
meeting him. I don't feel comfortable
with that. That that makes me scared
because I don't know why you're coming
up to me what your intent is and it may
not be a good intention. So that's why I
handle these situations the way I do and
I may not come across in a manner that
seems like that nice guy on the internet
that mildmannered Mr. Rogers voice or
whatever. you hear given enough time in
a live setting where I can go off the
rails and if I'm with my family and
you're coming up to me, I'm not Mr.
Rogers, okay? I'm literally not Mr.
Rogers. I'm ready to do something to you
because I don't know what your
intentions are. So, this is a little
reminder for folks that take it upon
themselves to go too far. I love all of
you as my students. I do. But that's not
an invitation to encroach on my personal
and private space and my family. And I'm
reminding Caleb of that because social
media has a wonderful element to it. But
it also has a weird dark side where
people think that they can say things,
make up things, lie, um do things that
are not true for the sake of selling
some storyline. Okay? And also because
of that, people that like you, that have
an unhealthy level of adoration towards
you, are willing to do things that are
not sane just to defend your honor, and
you've never asked them to do it. So,
you're not a celebrity. I'm not a
celebrity. I'm not a hero. I'm the
anti-guru. I'm doing everything a guru
wouldn't do. I'm pouring myself out here
where I could be making millions of
dollars doing it. I'm doing it for free
and I'm sharing the most intimate
private lectures that I would give to my
son. You all have the ability to sit and
listen to it or ignore it. You don't
have to. You don't have to be here. But
if it wasn't for him saying he wants
this, I'm like I said, I'm pouring
myself into it and I'm going to do what
I believe he needs to know and how to
learn how to do this, but he has to
learn the way I believe it's done best.
And I don't want anybody else's opinion
about it because if you haven't made
millions of dollars, you don't have a
you don't have a soap box to stand on.
So don't tell me. He's my kid. My
intentions are better than yours. And if
he fails, I have other things I can do
without giving him money to make sure
he's successful. So it's not it's not
dependent on him learning how to trade.
He doesn't have to be a good trader that
makes millions of dollars. if he just
makes a little bit of money, okay, just
that little bit of money, he can do a
lot with in the right hands with other
people. So, and that discussion will be
covered when we get into later u
points of his progress,
but using a YouTube channel to augment
and you know provide an in income in
addition while you're learning as a
student that's not my son. Okay, if you
want to have a crutch while you're
learning, there's a lot of people that
are interested in other other traders
and not just it's not just ICT traders,
right? It's anybody that wants to live
stream. If you're good at what you're
doing, you know, I I'm a trader that is
set in my ways. I don't want to learn
anything else. But I love watching other
people trade. Like I love it. Like to
me, there's nothing else better than
that. I don't not a sports fan. And to
watch someone that would you execute,
use a stop, manage their stop loss, and
take profit and kind of like reveal what
they feel while they're in a trade, what
they think, how they're thinking about
the trades, what I'm more interested in.
I watch that kind of stuff. And
unfortunately,
there isn't enough of it. And I'm trying
to foster this mindset in my own
community where I can't watch everybody
obviously, but I'm hope I'm hoping that
the things I'm teaching here will
inspire some of you to do do more of
that. And if you make an income or a
secondary hustle or you're getting a
little bit of ad revenue while you're
doing what you're doing, and I'm not
saying teach my stuff. I've already said
that none of you should be even teach
because you don't know. But if you want
to reveal how you use what I taught,
you're not trying to be a mentor. You're
saying, "I'm not trying to teach it. I'm
just saying this is what I do, how I
this is how I trade with it." Well,
there you go. There's nothing wrong with
that because you're not trying to do
something you're not equipped to do, but
you're doing something that you're used
to using the information with. That's
not teaching. You're just demonstrating
prowess with it. And to me, that's a
better thing to do because anybody can
repeat what I've said and sound smart.
But when you're actually doing it, you
got a nod from me. Like that that's
that's the real one. The people that are
out there teaching, they're behind the
wall of safety because they can talk
about it conceptually. But when you're
out there just trading and and that's
your whole thing, like I'm just trading.
There's no shame in that. And nobody can
say anything bad about it. Nobody can
because you're out there doing it.
you're making or breaking in front of
everybody. And if you're making money,
people are going to come here and watch
you. And it's easy. It's very, very easy
to get 10, 15, $20,000 a month with just
a steady live stream of this is what I'm
doing. And who wouldn't want to do that?
Because the tax treatment that Caleb can
use while he's working a job, he can't
write off his car insurance right now,
but with a YouTube channel, he can. So,
he's got to pay that regardless. So, why
not get a tax write-off and lowest
taxable income? Cuz his job income, he
can't write that stuff off. Just like
you, you can't do it either. When he
buys food, he can't write that off. His
cell phone bill, he has to pay it
regardless. So, why not be able to use
it as a write-off when you have a
YouTube channel. There's a lot of things
that a YouTuber's tax treatment can do
that a trader can't do.
You don't know that because you're not
financially literate. Okay? the fact
that he can have this as a a a business
before he starts making big money in
trading. He could start taking this
money and put it into a Roth IRA up to
$50,000 a year and he can trade that
$50,000 that's in a tax deferred in uh
investment vehicle.
So all the money he's making, instead of
having to pay taxes every year on it, he
can compound that bigger and inside of
five years, he can have 10, 20, $15
million and not even work hard to do it.
But you don't know that because you're
financially illiterate.
So
I get it. You know, you have your
preconceived notion because you're all
intellectually smart because you've read
other people's opinion about me or
anybody else. But you have no idea what
he's about to step into. And I'm
reminding him that when I throw these
numbers at him, he's he shakes his head.
He's like, "Nah, it ain't going to
happen." Like literally, what makes you
think that? You have no experience to
say anything that said that can't be
possible. But because he's never handled
that money, he's never had that money in
his hands that he's earned.
It seems impossible to him. And that's
the very thing that keeps most people
from ever want to learn how to do this
from me or anyone else because it thinks
they think that it can't happen.
He can take vacations that he's going to
take anyway. So now he can write that
stuff off. All he has to do is do one
YouTube video. One YouTube video while
he's on vacation, quote unquote, and
it's a complete write off. Anything he
eats is 50% write off. So why aren't you
all doing it?
Why aren't you doing it? more people
would love to see other students doing
this, but it's not for everyone. It's
absolutely not for everyone. And you
have to have a thick skin because if you
allow the chat window to be open and the
comment section open, you know, you're
going to a lot of trolls. And if you
wear your heart on your sleeve out there
or if you take everything as an attack,
you it's going to make it hard. But you
can literally build a channel and
progress be shown to other people that
you want to make it known. I watch it.
I'll see it.
But it'll help you meet your ends while
you're getting better at it. There's no
shame in that, man. There's literally no
shame in that. And you'll see the people
that are willing to do it. Some people
will progress faster than others. And
you'll understand what I mean by you.
You have to be comfortable with allowing
it to happen at your own pace.
Your own pace. And if you try to force
it, it makes it harder and it takes it
makes it longer. You think working
harder and longer will shorten it. It's
not. You have to budget your time doing
it because you burn out quick. It's a
lot of stuff. It's very technical.
And
if you have a lot of baggage that you
wrestle with, you already should make
allowances for it taking a lot longer
because it's going to be hard for you to
put down these things that you live with
that you wrestle with every day that
cause you problems in your personal
life. you're either an angry person or
you're an insecure person, someone that
clams up real quick and shuts down
immediately, or you have trust issues.
You know, all these things, they
manifest themselves. So, I'm coaching
Caleb like like that because when he was
younger, he had to have counseling. He
had to have that kind of stuff because
he has bipolar episodes as well. And
it's it's hard for a child to wrestle
that. And a parent can't fill that void
because they see the parent as this is
my guardian, this is my caretaker and
it's also my dad and my mom. So where do
you draw the line with discipline and
also how to grow with the proper mindset
and not feel like everything's abuse or
neglect? It's it's hard. It was it's
very hard. So I'm proud that he's made
this decision. Like I thought when he
was like, "I ain't worried about it."
That was the end of it. It was gonna
have to be one of the other kids because
I honestly didn't think he would want to
do this or had the aptitude. And I don't
mean that he's my son. I can say that.
But I didn't think he was going to have
the attitude to do it because he's
out of all my kids, he's he's he's
different.
He's different. And but he was wild as a
little boy. like he was like a 100 mph
all like he had to have a short chain on
him because he literally was all over
the place 100 m an hour but
intellect wise he's capable of doing it
but focuswise that was my concern but
now in the last couple years he's he's
slowed down and matured I think he's
found himself as an adult so I think
he's equipped now to do it so I'm
anxious to see where he goes with it I'm
excited to see it I'm I'm all in like
I'm all in And I'm hoping that he has
the the endurance to go through it cuz
once he has a little bit of success, he
will like me obsessively leech onto that
and suck it marrow out in life's blood
and it'll feed him into his next stage
of development success. And then that's
exactly what it's like. You find your
footholds and you climb up that mountain
one step at a time. Nobody walks up to
the mountain looks at the top and says
this is going to be easy fast climb. you
have to plan your route and and make
allowances for things not being exactly
as you thought. So with that, I'm
probably got about 200 people watching
still if if that. Um that was enough for
today, Caleb. And I will touch base with
you uh this evening u once you get home
and get settled and we'll we'll go over
the charts. Until I talk to you then,
be safe.